"Topic19"	"Topic14"	"Topic8"	"Topic22"	"Topic11"	"Topic20"	"Topic6"	"Topic10"	"Topic18"	"Topic7"	"Topic9"	"Topic26"	"Topic1"	"Topic29"	"Topic30"	"Topic27"	"Topic15"	"Topic5"	"Topic4"	"Topic28"	"Topic24"	"Topic21"	"Topic12"	"Topic23"	"Topic13"	"Topic16"	"Topic3"	"Topic2"	"Topic25"	"Topic17"
" The Bechtel Group Inc. offered in 1985 to sell oil to Israel at a discount of at least $650 million for 10 years if it promised not to bomb a proposed Iraqi pipeline, a Foreign Ministry official said Wednesday. But then-Prime Minister Shimon Peres said the offer from Bruce Rappaport, a partner in the San Francisco-based construction and engineering company, was ``unimportant,'' the senior official told The Associated Press. Peres, now foreign minister, never discussed the offer with other government ministers, said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. The comments marked the first time Israel has acknowledged any offer was made for assurances not to bomb the planned $1 billion pipeline, which was to have run near Israel's border with Jordan. The pipeline was never built. In San Francisco, Tom Flynn, vice president for public relations for the Bechtel Group, said the company did not make any offer to Peres but that Rappaport, a Swiss financier, made it without Bechtel's knowledge or consent. Another Bechtel spokesman, Al Donner, said Bechtel ``at no point'' in development of the pipeline project had anything to do with the handling of the oil. He said proposals submitted by the company ``did not include any specific arrangements for the handling of the oil or for the disposal of the oil once it reached the terminal.'' Asked about Bechtel's disclaimers after they were made in San Francisco, the Israeli Foreign Ministry official said Peres believed Rappaport made the offer for the company. ``Rappaport came to Peres as a representative of Bechtel and said he was speaking on behalf of Bechtel,'' the official said. ``If he was not, he misrepresented himself.'' The Jerusalem Post on Wednesday quoted sources close to Peres as saying that according to Rappaport, Bechtel had said the oil sales would have to be conducted through a third party to keep the sales secret from Iraq and Jordan. The Foreign Ministry official said Peres did not take the offer seriously. ``This is a man who sees 10 people every day,'' he said. ``Thirty percent of them come with crazy ideas. He just says, `Yes, yes. We'll think about it.' That's how things work in Israel.'' The offer appeared to be the one mentioned in a September 1985 memo to Attorney General Edwin Meese III. The memo referred to an arrangement between Peres and Rappaport ``to the effect that Israel will receive somewhere between $65 million and $70 million a year for 10 years.'' The memo from Meese friend E. Robert Wallach, Rappaport's attorney, also states, ``What was also indicated to me, and which would be denied everywhere, is that a portion of those funds will go directly to Labor,'' a reference to the political party Peres leads. The Wallach memo has become the focus of an investigation into whether Meese knew of a possibly improper payment. Peres has denied any wrongdoing and has denounced the memo as ``complete nonsense.'' The Israeli official said Rappaport, a native of Israel and a close friend of Peres, relayed the offer to Peres earlier in September. ``Peres thought the offer was unimportant. For him, the most important thing was to have an Iraqi oil port near Israel's border,'' the official said. ``The thinking was that this would put Iraq in a position where it would not be able to wage war with Israel, out of concern for its pipeline.'' A person answering the telephone at Rappaport's Swiss residence said he was out of town and could not be reached for comment."	" For a decade Henry Cisneros has been the pre-eminent Hispanic leader _ a successful mayor, an articulate speaker, a thoughtful politician, a powerful role model. At the height of his prestige, he is moving to the sidelines, maybe even getting out of politics. He's turned down an offer to speak at the Democratic National Convention, quashed any talk of the vice presidency and ruled out trying to spread his ``San Antonio Miracle'' with a statewide race in Texas in 1990. Even as national attention turns to the power of Hispanic political clout this year, Cisneros says he may not seek re-election as mayor. Cisneros said of his move out of the national arena, ``It's a decision that I've made.'' ``For the moment my total and exclusive focus is on San Antonio issues,'' he said. ``We're in a period of tremendous resurgence in San Antonio after the Texas slump and we have many, many initiatives here that are setting this city in position for the long run.'' His attention is also focused on a year-old son with a congenital heart defect who will require extensive surgery at about the same time as the 1990 campaigning season. Cisneros also talks regularly with two businessmen about joining them in a corporate venture. To other Hispanics leaders across the country, not having Henry Cisneros out front carrying the torch will be a setback. ``He leaves a huge vacuum,'' said Los Angeles City Councilwoman Gloria Molina. ``His soft-spoken yet direct way is what we need and I don't know if anyone else can sit down with presidential candidates, labor leaders, or whoever and look them in the eye and not give in. ``As he steps to the sidelines, he'll be sorely missed,'' Molina said. ``Everyone thinks it's a shame but they respect his priorities,'' said Harry Pachon, director of the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials. Cisneros, interviewed four years ago by Walter Mondale as a possible running mate, says he'll campaign for Democrat Michael Dukakis this fall, and he'll announce Sept. 15 his decision on a possible fifth term as mayor. He often points out he's never put himself forward as any sort of official Hispanic spokesman or leader, and says he turned down a chance to address the Democratic National Convention in Atlanta because he just didn't have the time. ``To take weeks off to prepare a quality major speech and then deliver it just adds to the weight of what I need to do here on things I have promised to do,'' including projects on water, education, drugs and a domed stadium, he said. He says he doesn't see a gap in Hispanic political leadership. ``I can see from the Jesse Jackson experience that it might be useful to have someone who could bring people together and speak for people in a way that Jackson is doing,'' Cisneros said. ``But frankly, the Hispanic community doesn't lend itself to that. There are more differences in the Hispanic community than there are in the black community. ... My sense is what is happening is very productive and that is a lot of leadership is being developed across the country.''"	" Congressional approval of President Bush's new budget would allow the Internal Revenue Service to increase the number of tax returns it audits _ but not by much. IRS Commissioner Fred T. Goldberg Jr. told reporters the agency anticipates auditing 102 returns per 10,000 that will be filed in 1990 and 103 per 10,000 next year. That compares with an all-time low of 97 per 10,000 returns for the 1989 tax year. ``The fact remains that there has been a continuing decline in audit coverage for a number of years, but now we are seeing a reversal of the trend,'' Goldberg said after Bush's proposed budget for the 1991 fiscal year was made public Monday. Although IRS officials agree that more returns should be audited, they point to concerted efforts over the past few years to target larger returns, those involving tax shelters and others likely to yield more revenue. Even so, Goldberg said, the audit statistics do not tell the whole story. He noted, for example, about 40 million couples and individuals file returns that are based almost entirely on income from wages, interest and dividends. IRS computers now automatically check those returns against backup documents filed by employers, banks and brokers to ensure that all income is reported. While those computer matches are not audits, Goldberg said, they are thorough enough to make it difficult for taxpayers to under-report such income. The agency's proposed budget for 1991 is $6.14 billion, up 11.6 percent from this year's $5.5 billion. A big part of that increase represents another installment on the agency's plan to replace an outmoded computer system. Goldberg said the new system will cost up to $6 billion over the next decade. One aim of the new system is to allow taxpayers to get answers to questions about their tax accounts as easily as they get information about a bill from a credit card company. The Bush administration estimates the IRS will collect an additional $3 billion next year because of management initiatives and the increase in the agency's own spending. Goldberg said the IRS will spend an additional $56 million and assign about 1,000 new staff members to reducing accounts receivable from a record level of nearly $60 billion. Those are taxes that have been assessed but not paid. The agency expects to spend $330 million in the new year for taxpayer service, which includes answering telephoned tax questions. That figure is up from $317 million this year, principally because last year IRS employees gave the wrong answer to one of every three telephoned questions."	" A federal appeals court Tuesday overturned the nine-year sentence and most of the criminal convictions of former Guam Gov. Ricardo Bordallo, who allegedly exchanged political favors for payoffs. In a 3-0 decision, the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said four bribery-related convictions had to be reversed because the federal crime of bribery applies only to state officials and Guam is a territory, not a state. The court also reversed four extortion-related convictions because the jury was not told that it must find Bordallo demanded or otherwise induced the payoffs, totaling $79,600 in cash. The court ruled recently in another Guam case that extortion does not cover payments that an official accepted without either a request or an understanding that the donor would get benefits in exchange. The ruling, if it stands, would entitle Bordallo to a retrial on those charges. The court upheld Bordallo's two other convictions: tampering with a witness, for asking a supporter to lie to the grand jury, and a related charge of conspiracy to obstruct justice. But according to Bordallo's lawyer, the entire nine-year prison sentence was for the extortion convictions. He was given suspended sentences on the other charges. Bordallo, a Democrat elected in 1982, was indicted a few days before the 1986 Democratic primary. He won the primary but was defeated in November 1986 by Republican Joseph Ada. He has been free on bail during his appeal. Prosecutors said Bordallo approved government contracts and permits for various firms in exchange for payments, mostly delivered to him in unmarked envelopes. The money was described by the donors as campaign contributions or gifts, but never was reported by Bordallo in his campaign statements, authorities said. He also was accused of approving a $103,000 government contract for a company that agreed to hire his campaign manager."	" Britain's unemployment rate fell to a seasonally adjusted 8.4 percent in June from 8.6 percent in the previous month, while industrial production rose 0.6 percent in May, the government said Thursday. The unemployment rate also was down from 10.4 percent in June 1987, the Department of Employment said. However, the department said half the decline in the latest month was the result of a new definition of employment. People employed by government job training programs now are being counted as employed. The new practice brings Britain more in line with other European countries' methods of defining employment and adds about 334,000 persons to the ranks of the employed, the department said. Total seasonally adjusted British unemployment came to 2.38 million people in June, down from a revised 2.41 million people in May and 2.92 million people in June 1987, the department said. Meanwhile, industrial production was up 3.8 percent from a year earlier, according to the Central Statistical Office. The latest figures compare with April's revised 1 percent month-to-month rise and 4 percent year-to-year rise. The office said the index of industrial production, which uses a 1980 base of 100, rose to 116.7 in May from a revised 116 in April and was up from 112.4 in May 1987."	" For 20 years, Barth Green struggled with his frustration, doctoring crushed and twisted spinal cords while knowing paralysis was permanent and irreversible. Spinal cord injuries doomed active, healthy people to spend the rest of their lives in wheelchairs. In the worst cases, they can't out of bed, pull on socks or underwear, brush their teeth, comb their hair, lift a forkful of food to their mouths or scratch an itch. But Green made a lousy fatalist. In 1985, he founded the Miami Project to Cure Paralysis, dedicated to reversing one of the most catastrophic conditions in medicine by solving the mystery of one of the most complex structures in biology. Today it is the country's largest and most comprehensive spinal cord research unit. ``No one's ever had the guts to say we want to cure paralysis, (but) I'm committed to eliminating wheelchairs. It's a world war against paralysis,'' said Green, a neurosurgeon. ``Our philosophy is to approach it like the Manhattan Project to split atoms to stop Hitler, or the Apollo Project to put a man on the moon in the space race.'' In an era when miracle drugs, transplant surgery, laser beams and artificial body parts have made medicine seem capable of solving almost anything, paralysis remains stubbornly unconquered. Researchers have made progress toward regenerating nerves in animals' spinal cords with transplants of cells from fetuses, electrical pulses and genetic engineering. But some say the challenge may be tougher than building atomic bombs or space ships. ``Those were engineering problems with a general consensus it could be done. Those guys had blueprints. We don't have any blueprints,'' said Dr. Walter Levy, a researcher at the Miami Project. ``We're in the Wright brothers stage. What's required is a space shuttle,'' said Dr. Michael Kliot, a neurosurgeon at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in New York City. ``There's a ray of hope. But we're very, very far away from curing spinal cord injuries.'' An estimated 250,000 to 500,000 people in the United States are paralyzed as a result of injuries, according to the Department of Health and Human Services; an additional 10,000 to 15,000 people are hurt each year. No agency keeps precise count. Auto accidents account for about half the paralysis cases. Other causes are dives, falls, and accidents with guns and knives or while playing sports. The average age of victims is 19. Marc Buoniconti, son of former All-Pro football linebacker Nick Buoniconti of the Miami Dolphins, was 19 when his neck broke and crushed his spinal cord as he made a head-first tackle, paralyzing him from the neck down Oct. 26, 1985. ``I knew I broke my neck right away,'' said Buoniconti, who had played football since he was a 75-pound 7-year-old. ``My right arm flopped to the turf. I couldn't move. I couldn't get my breath back. I couldn't talk. ``In one second, I went from the best shape of my life to the worst,'' Buoniconti said. ``I was taking my last steps doing my favorite thing. It was on a football field, the place I love the most.'' Now, from his wheelchair at home in this Miami suburb, the 21-year-old Buoniconti is tackling paralysis as national spokesman for the Miami Project. The project's logo is a four-frame sequence of a stick figure standing up out of a wheelchair, matching the can-do grit of Buoniconti's personalized license plate that reads ``I'LL WALK.'' ``It's not a question of `if.' That's not in our vocabulary. It's a question of when,'' said Steve Towle, the project's executive director and a former Dolphins linebacker. ``I've seen what it takes to win. It can be done. It will be done.'' The spinal cord, encased in the bony armor of the spinal column, is as wide as a thumb and has the consistency of jellied candy."	" Oil prices rallied Friday as traders speculated President Bush might scrap diplomatic meetings with Iraq, then crude fell back sharply when Bush's news conference rhetoric was not so harsh. Light sweet crude oil settled at $26.55 per barrel, up 13 cents, at the New York Mercantile Exchange on contracts for delivery in January. Crude for delivery in most later months closed lower. In early trading, crude had jumped up by $1.68 per barrel amid continued quarreling between the United States and Iraq over a date for Secretary of State James A. Baker III to visit Baghdad. Two senators said in Washington that Bush might be ready to abandon the idea of the talks, adding to oil's rally. After Bush said in the afternoon that he was discouraged but still hoped the talks could be held, crude plunged more than $1 per barrel in about a half hour. ``It was probably a little over-bought on the whole situation,'' said Ann-Louise Hittle, a senior oil analyst with Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. ``Once he came out and didn't do anything, it was easy to sell off, probably a little bit of buy-the-rumor, sell-the-fact.'' Oil traders often run up prices by buying crude futures contracts when rumors hit the market, because they don't want to run the risk of getting left out of a rally. They are more likely to sell off their oil contracts on the basis of facts that indicate adequate supplies or sluggish demand. During the week, crude hit its lowest prices since Aug. 3, the day after Iraq invaded Kuwait. But after the close of $25.35 per barrel on Wednesday, it began moving higher. Oil had been steadily dropping since Nov. 30, when Bush first proposed the talks with Iraq and traders began believing a peaceful solution to the crisis could be at hand. Once the diplomats showed they could not even agree on dates to meet, the war fears began resurfacing. ``The last few days, it seemed like the peace talk has diminished,'' said Ed Kevelson, a trader with Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. For the week, crude finished 3 cents higher on January delivery contracts. Refined petroleum products moved in tandem with crude on Friday, rising in early trading then dropping to show little change at the close. Home heating oil was up .67 cent at 75.24 cents a gallon for January delivery. Unleaded gasoline was up .61 cent at 66.18 cents a gallon for January delivery. Heating oil has shown the most weakness of late, with supplies adequate and demand sluggish amid unseasonably warm fall weather. ``It won't get cold,'' said Thomas P. Blakeslee, an energy analyst with Pegasus Econometric Group Inc., in Hoboken, N.J. ``It's a little chilly out there today, but there's no forecast for any types of freezing temperatures.'' For the week, heating oil fell 3.93 cents for next-month delivery, while gasoline fell .29 cent. Natural gas for January delivery closed Friday at $2.262 per 1,000 cubic feet, up 4.2 cents for the day but down 8.8 cents for the week."	" The family of Gen. Michel Aoun drove to Beirut's airport today to board a flight for Paris, but France and Lebanon remained locked in a dispute over the fate of the defeated rebel commander. Witnesses said a convoy of six French Embassy cars accompanied by four Lebanese military police jeeps left the embassy compound in the eastern suburb of Hazmiyeh and drove to the airport in Syrian-controlled south Beirut. Two Air France executive jets had flown in earlier to evacuate Aoun's wife, Nadia, and their three daughters - Mireille, 22, Claudine, 19, and Chantal, 17 -and transport them to France, where they will live in exile. Aoun remained in the French Embassy, where he has been granted asylum. The Lebanese government has refused to allow Aoun to leave the country, insisting that he face trial for a variety of crimes and the alleged theft of at least $75 million from the ailing state treasury. Earlier today, President Elias Hrawi accused Aoun - who took refuge in the French Embassy with his family on Saturday - of ordering his troops to continue fighting even after he broadcast his message of surrender. ``I'm in the French Embassy. The outcome (of the battle) will be favorable to us. Go on. Go on fighting,'' Hrawi quoted Aoun as telling his forces last week in a radio message. ``These were the orders Aoun radioed to his forces, even after his message of surrender was broadcast,'' Hrawi said in remarks released by his office. Hrawi's government also denied press reports that scores of Aoun's defeated soldiers were massacred after surrendering to the Lebanese and Syrian forces who ended Aoun's 11-month mutiny on Saturday. Prime Minister Salim Hoss said France's call for a United Nations investigation of reports of such killings was based on ``biased rumors.'' The Defense Ministry said in a communique that reports that Aoun's troops were massacred after surrendering were ``absolutely baseless.'' The communique said Aoun's troops who died ``fell in the military operation.'' The eight-hour, air-and-ground assault killed 350 people and wounded 1,200 by police count. Police said the fatalities included at least 100 Syrian soldiers. But The New York Times, citing doctors at East Beirut hospitals and Syrian officers, said in today's editions that the death toll was at least 750. Military sources speaking on condition of anonymity described ``ferocious hand-to-hand fighting'' between the advancing Syrian troops and Aoun's forces on the eastern edge of his 80-square-mile enclave in the Christian heartland. One source said that after Aoun's address was broadcast, one of his officers told the Syrians he was surrendering, but then opened fire when the Syrians came forward. The Syrians responsed by pounding the Aoun forces' position with rocket launchers and tank cannons, then stormed it with tank-led forces, according to the source. The Defense Ministry's communique came a few hours after France urged U.N. Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar to investigate reports of summary executions of Aoun's vanquished troops in the enclave northeast of Beirut. French and British press reports said about 100 of Aoun's 15,000 troops were killed after surrendering. The French Foreign Ministry said France was trying to obtain information about the reports but also wanted a U.N. probe. French opposition leaders today demanded tougher French action in response to the allegations. One of them - Alain Juppe, secretary-general of the conservative Rally for the Republic party - said the government should demand an emergency session of the U.N. Security Council in order to force the withdrawal of Syrian troops from Lebanon. A police spokesman in Lebanon said on Thursday that by the time police examined the bodies of the slain troops they found ``no solid evidence that the soldiers were liquidated.'' ``None of the corpses we examined had hands tied behind the back and very few of the dead soldiers were hit in the skulls with bullets,'' said the spokesman, who could be named in line with regulations. Associated Press photographer Ahmed Azakir, who visited the government hospital in suburuban Baabda on Tuesday, reported seeing more than 50 bodies of Aoun's troops in the morgue. He said none had their hands tied. Most of Aoun's troops declared allegiance to Hrawi's army under Gen. Emile Lahoud, a Maronite Catholic like both the president and the defeated general. The leftist newspaper As-Safir - in a front-page, eight-column headline - said the call for a U.N. investigation was part of a French effort to ``distort the operation of unifying Beirut.''"	" Bank of New England Corp. is cutting 5,600 workers and slashing $300 million in costs, but the troubled company admits that even with the cuts its future is in doubt. The bank, operating under government orders for more than a month, announced the cost-cutting plan Wednesday. But the institution also filed federal documents this week saying it expects to see an increase in troubled loans. Furthermore, the bank acknowledged its future may hinge on whether the slumping New England economy continues to decline. ``Continued deterioration in the New England economy and the real estate market could adversely impact the corporation's recovery efforts,'' the bank said. The job reductions, which will lower the workforce by about one-third, will come through a combination of layoffs, attrition and asset sales. The bank also has frozen hiring, eliminated financial bonuses and suspended raises for bank officers. Analysts said that although the moves should strengthen the bank, its footing remains extremely shaky. The bank gave a similar assessment in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission this week. ``If the corporation is unsuccessful in addressing the corporation's current difficulties, it is likely that external assistance from third parties and@or regulatory authorities will be required,'' the bank said. Bank of New England lost more than $1 billion last year, due largely to bad real estate loans. The bank said that in addition to $2.2 billion in non-performing assets reported at the end of 1989, it had $1 billion in loans that were still performing but where borrowers were experiencing some financial difficulty. The bank said it expects non-performing assets will increase in the first quarter. That could be a sign that problems could be spreading outside the bank's real estate portfolio into other business loans, said Gerard Cassidy, an analyst with Tucker Anthony Inc. ``The key is the economy,'' he said. ``The New England economy is not cooperating.'' The bank said it would lay off about 1,700 employees and would notify them over the next several days. ``These decisions were difficult and they are painful for all of us,'' bank Chairman Lawrence K. Fish said in a letter to employees. ``But difficult as these steps are, it is essential that we take them now to assure our future viability and our ability to rebuild as a stronger, though smaller, Bank of New England,'' he said. ``At the same time, our primary concern as we rebuild is customer service and maintenance of the highest possible credit quality,'' Fish said. An earlier staff reduction plan was canceled by Fish after he was named chairman on March 9. At the time, he ordered a thorough review of the organization's direction, structure, and personnel needs. Personnel cuts, asset sales and other measures are expected to reduce annual operating expenses by approximately $300 million, the bank said. Bank officials said the action was being taken as part of a strategic plan outlining new directions for the corporation. Details of the plan are expected next week. The bank last month announced it had signed federal orders that set tight guidelines for lending practices and other operations. James Moynihan, senior vice president of Advest Inc. in Boston, predicted the bank eventually will sell off all its subsidiaries in Connecticut, Maine and Rhode Island. ``In order to survive, they will have to become a Massachusetts-only bank,'' he said. The results, if successful, would be a ``very competitive bank'' with assets below $20 billion, compared with a $32 billion level last year. The bank said its new strategic plan will try to concentrate on primary banking and lending businesses. Other operations will be eliminated, including processing services, large corporate banking outside of New England, leasing and discount brokerage services. The bank also disclosed that it was being sued in federal court in Pennsylvania by the Penn Mutual Life Insurance Co., which has a $10 million, 14 percent Bank of New England bank note due in 1996. Penn Mutual maintains the bank's asset sales breached covenants in the note. The insurance company asked the court to order the bank to speed up its principal payments. The bank also faces a lawsuit from shareholders who claim company executives misrepresented the bank's financial status by not disclosing the mounting troubles sooner last year."	" For a decade Henry Cisneros has been the pre-eminent Hispanic leader _ a successful mayor, an articulate speaker, a thoughtful politician, a powerful role model. At the height of his prestige, he is moving to the sidelines, maybe even getting out of politics. He's turned down an offer to speak at the Democratic National Convention, quashed any talk of the vice presidency and ruled out trying to spread his ``San Antonio Miracle'' with a statewide race in Texas in 1990. Even as national attention turns to the power of Hispanic political clout this year, Cisneros says he may not seek re-election as mayor. Cisneros said of his move out of the national arena, ``It's a decision that I've made.'' ``For the moment my total and exclusive focus is on San Antonio issues,'' he said. ``We're in a period of tremendous resurgence in San Antonio after the Texas slump and we have many, many initiatives here that are setting this city in position for the long run.'' His attention is also focused on a year-old son with a congenital heart defect who will require extensive surgery at about the same time as the 1990 campaigning season. Cisneros also talks regularly with two businessmen about joining them in a corporate venture. To other Hispanics leaders across the country, not having Henry Cisneros out front carrying the torch will be a setback. ``He leaves a huge vacuum,'' said Los Angeles City Councilwoman Gloria Molina. ``His soft-spoken yet direct way is what we need and I don't know if anyone else can sit down with presidential candidates, labor leaders, or whoever and look them in the eye and not give in. ``As he steps to the sidelines, he'll be sorely missed,'' Molina said. ``Everyone thinks it's a shame but they respect his priorities,'' said Harry Pachon, director of the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials. Cisneros, interviewed four years ago by Walter Mondale as a possible running mate, says he'll campaign for Democrat Michael Dukakis this fall, and he'll announce Sept. 15 his decision on a possible fifth term as mayor. He often points out he's never put himself forward as any sort of official Hispanic spokesman or leader, and says he turned down a chance to address the Democratic National Convention in Atlanta because he just didn't have the time. ``To take weeks off to prepare a quality major speech and then deliver it just adds to the weight of what I need to do here on things I have promised to do,'' including projects on water, education, drugs and a domed stadium, he said. He says he doesn't see a gap in Hispanic political leadership. ``I can see from the Jesse Jackson experience that it might be useful to have someone who could bring people together and speak for people in a way that Jackson is doing,'' Cisneros said. ``But frankly, the Hispanic community doesn't lend itself to that. There are more differences in the Hispanic community than there are in the black community. ... My sense is what is happening is very productive and that is a lot of leadership is being developed across the country.''"	" A South Carolina legislator had a suggestion to end discussion on bills designating ``official'' state animals, vegetables and minerals: Designate an official everything. ``We ought ... to have everyone fill out the darn list with everything they can think of and we would never have this come before us again,'' said Rep. Woody Aydlette. ``We could have a state cat, a state snake, even a state disease. After that, we would be finished with it. Why do them one at a time? Just go ahead and get them on a list and let's go.'' The reaction of fellow House members to Aydlette's proposal was less than enthusiastic. They ignored it. The Republican lawmaker was trying to block a bill to make the loggerhead sea turtle the state reptile, but the measure raced through the House anyway Wednesday. The Senate recently approved the bill, along with a measure to make the praying mantis South Carolina's state insect. The state already has a state fish, deer, bird, wild game bird and dog, not the mention a state flower, tree, flag, stone, shell, fruit, beverage, stone, two state songs and a dance. Aydlette says its a waste of time and money to pass legislation adding state symbols. But, he said, ``it's beginning to take up too much time to even fight the thing now.''"	" Stock prices recovered slightly and the U.S. dollar edged lower against the Japanese yen in Friday morning trading. The Nikkei Stock Average of 225 selected issues, which plunged 431.69 points Thursday, the third largest single-day decline this year, was up by 30.74 points at 26,965.00 in the first 15 minutes of trading. Dealers said share prices started to recover as the foreign exchange market stabilized. The dollar, which rose 1.73 yen on Thursday, opened at 136.25 yen, down from the previous day's close of 136.70 yen. The dollar's decline on Friday morning was due partly to a 0.20-yen loss overnight in the United States, according to a foreign exchange dealer at the Bank of Tokyo. ``The dollar-buying drive in the market is still strong, but the rate is not moving that quickly,'' he said on condition of anonymity. ``Until the scheduled report of U.S. unemployment figures later today, there is a wait-and-see mood among investors, which slows down dollar-buying,'' he added."	" The Boeing Co. said a $1.8 billion order from Delta Air Lines helped it set a company record of $47.7 billion worth of airplane orders this year. Boeing's 1990 tally tops by $1.1 billion its previous high mark of $46.6 billion set last year even though the number of planes ordered fell from 1989. Boeing said Thursday that 543 planes were ordered this year, down from 883 last year. The biggest drop came in orders for the short-haul 737-series - 162 planes this year from 463 last year. But the overall dollar amount of the orders increased because of a sharp rise in orders for Boeing's most expensive jet, the 747-400 jumbo. This year, airlines ordered 172 of the 747-400s, which cost between $125 million and $147 million each. Boeing received orders for 68 of its 747-400s in 1989. Delta's order announced Thursday includes six new 767-300 twinjets, which sell for between $78 million and $86 million each. Boeing also disclosed that Delta placed orders earlier this year for three more extended-range 767-300s, an additional standard 767-300, nine 757-200s and seven 737-300s. Boeing spokesman T. Craig Martin said the previous orders included options Delta converted to firm purchases this year and several jets added to earlier orders during the final contract negotiations for those orders."	" Soldiers shot at anti-government demonstrators in central Bucharest tonight after the protesters occupied state-run television and stormed and burned police headquarters, witnesses said. One witness reported seeing at least two bodies after the shooting, but this could not be immediately confirmed. The most serious violence in the Romanian capital since December's revolution that toppled the Ceausescu regime was caused by a pre-dawn police raid that ended a 53-day anti-Communist protest in University Square. Demonstrators clashed with police during the afternoon in the square, then fanned out to police headquarters, secret police headquarters, the TV station and Victory Square, headquarters of the governing National Salvation Front. The shooting occurred outside the secret police headquarters, where the late dictator Nicolae Ceausescu's hated Securitate force operated. Before the buildings were attacked, President-elect Ion Iliescu issued a communique calling on all ``aware and responsible people'' to surround government buildings and state TV to ward off ``extremist groups'' and to save Romania's democracy ``earned with so much difficulty.'' Scottish free-lance photographer Jeremy Sutton-Hibbert said he saw soldiers shooting from inside the Securitate building in downtown Bucharest. He said he saw the body of a man in his 40s who had been shot in the head. He said other photographers had seen at least one more body near the building, which was ringed by half a dozen armored personnel carriers. State-run television, scene of fierce fighting during December's revolution, was stormed by the protesters who occupied one of the main studios. An announcer said they might not be able to transmit any longer. Minutes later, the picture was cut and shortly afterward the sound was also cut. Demonstrators carrying gasoline cans got into headquarters of the regular police this evening and set fire to cars and trucks nearby. About 1,500 people stood outside, watching the right wing of the building burn. Some civilians working in the headquarters leaned out the windows, looking panicked and coughing. Every few minutes, there were minor explosions, apparently from gasoline in the vehicles set ablaze. People who thronged the streets booed as helicopters flew overhead surveying the situation. The demonstrators say Communists still dominate the National Salvation Front, which has been in power since the December revolution and which won last month's free elections by a landslide. The government said more than 260 people were detained when steel-helmeted police moved in before dawn to break up the sit-in in University Square that had blocked the capital's main thoroughfare for 53 days. Witnesses said the police clubbed several protesters. Casualty figures were not immediately available, but officials said one policeman was injured in the clash with an estimated 1,000 people supporting the demonstrators. About 20 hunger strikers were among those camped in a small tent city in University Square. Police took the fasting demonstrators, some of whom had gone without food for a month, to the hospital. The protesters supporting the hunger strikers freed two people detained in a police van then overturned the vehicle and set it on fire, witnesses said. Several buses and trucks were also reported on fire. The attack on the police headquarters occurred several hours later. A government communique issued soon after the square was cleared said 263 people were detained for investigation. It accused protesters of attempting to resist the police with violence and said some arms were confiscated. Brindusa Muresan, who had been on a hunger striker since May 9, said some of her colleagues were clubbed by police in the lobby of the nearby Intercontinental Hotel. She said they were taken to a police station, fingerprinted and photographed and sent to the hospital for tests. Protesters, their ranks sometimes swelling to as many as 10,000 by day, had blocked traffic in the central square since April 22, dubbing the area a ``Communist-free zone.'' The protesters have pressed for a 10-year ban on former Communists officials _ such as Iliescu _ holding office. The demonstrators also demanded independent and private broadcast media. Government officials who met with the hunger strikers for the first time on Monday pledged their support for establishing such stations."	" The White House, on the heels of revelations that five employees were relieved of their duties as authorities investigate drug use, said today it will soon begin mandatory, random drug tests. Spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the months-old investigation, which has resulted in the dismissal of two National Security Council clerks and the suspension of three White House guards, ``illustrates all too well the terrible fact of drug use in our society.'' Reagan, asked at a picture-taking session about the developments, first reported in today's Washington Post, said, ``Yes, of course I am upset that it (drug use) is found anywhere.'' Asked if he thought his security had ever been endangered, the president replied, ``No, I don't think so.'' Reagan, posing with Republican congressmen who had come to the White House to discuss drug policy options, said that if White House workers are found to have used drugs he would like to see them enter drug treatment programs. ``If it was just a case of using'' drugs, Reagan said, ``then I would like to see us do our best to get them into a drug-treatment organization with a view to attempting a cure. ... Let the people know that then we will do our best to salvage anyone who has been a victim.'' On Wednesday, White House spokeswoman Liz Murphy said the two clerks had ``admitted drug use and were separated from the NSC.'' Fitzwater today told reporters that the clerks ``agreed to resign'' several months ago, ``during the winter.'' Asked at what level the NSC clerks worked, Fitzwater said he could not specify except to say they were at the ``secretary level.'' Pressed to say whether the two were involved in handling sensitive matters, he responded, ``It's fair to assume that everyone who works at the NSC has access to sensitive material.'' Fitzwater said Reagan and first lady Nancy Reagan, who has led a campaign to ``just say no to drugs,'' have known of the investigation by the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Secret Service ``for several months. ``It was started last winter when allegations were brought to the attention of the Secret Service,'' Fitzwater said. He said the tip had come from a member of the Uniformed Division, whose officers guard the Executive Mansion. But the White House later today corrected Fitzwater's statement, saying the information had come from outside the Secret Service. Fitzwater would not say today what drugs had been involved. The Post, however, quoted an unnamed source as saying that a transaction involving cocaine had taken place on the White House grounds. Fitzwater said today there was no evidence produced by the investigation so far to substantiate that any such drug sales occurred. Fitzwater said that White House employees will be sent a letter giving them 60 days' notice of the mandatory, random drug testing. Fitzwater said the tests will be conducted six times a year, with each round involving about 2 percent of the approximately 1,600 employees of the executive office of the president. Included are employees of the Office of Management and Budget, the National Security Council and the office of the vice president and first lady. The spokesman also said that the Secret Service will begin on July 13 a program of pre-employment drug testing for job applicants. ``We have been advised that drugs were not used or sold on the White House premises and there was no breach of security,'' he said, although Fitzwater cautioned that the investigation by the U.S. attorney's office, Secret Service and DEA was continuing. Names of the five employees were not released. Evidence in the investigation, begun several months ago, has been turned over to the U.S. attorney's office, Secret Service spokesman Robert Snow said Wednesday. ``No arrests have been made,'' Snow said. ``These are only administrative actions at this point.'' Two of the guards were relieved of their duties last Friday. The third was placed on leave Monday. It was not clear when the NSC clerks were fired. Asked why the clerks were no longer on the payroll while the Secret Service officers were on paid leave, Fitzwater said the guards have the protection of civil service appeal processes while members of the executive office serve at the pleasure of the president. In addition to guarding the White House grounds, uniformed members of the Secret Service guard the vice president's home and foreign embassies. They also travel with the president to provide security. The NSC, chaired by the president, advises the president on matters of national security."	" Curiosity didn't kill a cat trapped in the trunk of a Mercedes-Benz for 10 days, but it nearly drove him to catatonia. Kitty, the 11-year-old orange cat, apparently jumped into the Mercedes when it was being serviced Jan. 17 at his owner's shop, Richie's Auto Radio. The proprietor, Richard P. D'Auteuil, placed ads in the newspaper, made daily calls to the Animal Rescue League and tried to contact customers who visited his store on that day. ``The only customer I didn't contact was the only one I didn't have a slip for,'' the owner of the Mercedes, D'Auteuil said. The Mercedes was brought back in 10 days later, and a worker opened the trunk when he heard mewing inside, D'Auteuil said. Out jumped the desperate Kitty, thin and thirsty but basically healthy. Kitty's strong constitution, and the relative warmth of the car, stored in a garage, probably saved his life, said Lawrence A. Shinnamon, a veterinarian at Anchor Animal Hospital."	" About 406,000 hourly General Motors Corp. workers soon will receive performance bonus payments that average $900 to $1,000 per worker, the automaker says. Distribution of the checks, which total about $307 million, began Thursday, GM said. Each worker receives 3 percent of his or her earnings from the previous year, based on the rate of pay and the number of hours worked. The payments are part of the three-year GM-United Auto Workers union contract that went into effect last year. ``These special payments recognize the relationship between an improved standard of living, technological progress and the cooperative spirit and teamwork attitude of all employees in achieving that program,'' said Alfred Warren Jr., GM's vice president for industrial relations."	" The Marlboro man has corralled his last horse and Salem's ``springtime'' has ended on Hong Kong TV following a cigarette ad ban that began today in this British colony. The ban is part of a growing campaign in Asia against tobacco companies, which have been accused of targeting Asia's women and children. In a related development, Hong Kong's legislature has urged the government to ban children under the age of 15 from smoking in restaurants. ``Smoking parties'' where a group of young people lounge around a table and chain-smoke cigarettes is a popular pastime in Hong Kong. Hong Kong is also readying legislation to ban smoking in ferries, buses, taxis, government buildings, cinemas and theaters. In other Asian countries, Indonesia has banned smoking in most schools and Singapore has moved to limit advertising."	" Sexual harassment of women in the Marine Corps remains a problem that can be remedied by emphasizing that the practice will not be tolerated, according to a Marine Corps report released Sunday. The Task Force on Women in the Marine Corps said existing directives and the corps' primary grievance system are ``appropriate tools to implement Marine Corps policy on this issue.'' However, the commandant of the corps must convey that sexual harassment will not be tolerated in the service, according to the executive summary of the final report. ``The (commandant) will improve sexual harassment awareness training in formal schools and at the recruit depots,'' said the report, which will be released Monday. The task force, formed in September 1987 at the request of then-Secretary of Navy James Webb, said the corps did not have a ``significant problem'' with fraternization. ``Fraternization is not a gender-specific issue,'' the report said. ``No corrective action was recommended.'' In February, Defense Secretary Frank C. Carlucci responded to a Pentagon report by ordering expanded job opportunities for women in the Marine Corps and the Air Force, including the assignment of female Marines to embassy guard duty. Women account for about 10 percent of the nation's 2.1 million military personnel. By law, they are excluded from combat. The content of the Pentagon report provided the basis of the Marine Corps report released Sunday. The report also recommended certain steps to improve the quality of life for female Marines, including solving the problem of shortage in uniform items and lengthy delays in filling special orders, ensuring full investigation when homosexual conduct is suspected and allowing a pregnant Marine to request a 30-day delay in the notification of her commander by the medical officer. The task force also recommended that the Navy surgeon general review the policy regarding the assignment of obstetricians and gynecologists to combat service units, and the commandant review the number of women medical and dental personnel assigned to various units. The Navy surgeon general also should publish information regarding oral contraceptives for men, recreational programs should be expanded and additional child care centers be built, the report said. The commandant approved all the recommendations with the exception of pregnancy notification and oral contraceptives for men."	" The $4.2 billion Safeway buyout was partially financed by the sale of several divisions. Vons Cos. Inc. bought 172 Safeway stores in Southern California and Nevada, and Supermarket Development Corp., which operates Furrs supermarkets, acquired 59 Safeways in Texas and New Mexico."	" Criminologists and other experts tell them otherwise, but many Norwegians are convinced their country is overrun by thugs, hooligans and ``the mob.'' The experts say the public concern verges on ``national hysteria.'' They argue that Norway still has one of the world's lowest crime rates, and is nowhere near being in a league with the United States or other countries with serious crime problems. ``Our biggest crime problem is the unfounded anxiety people feel about it,'' said Nils Christie, a University of Oslo criminology professor. Muggings are rare and city parks generally are safe. Some cafeterias leave it up to the customers to leave what they owe in a till and even make their own change. Few of Norway's 4.2 million people have actually witnessed criminal violence, according to an informal poll by one newspaper. Police, who usually are unarmed, used or threatened to use weapons just 28 times last year, according to Justice Ministry figures. ``Norway is at the bottom of the list of violent crimes per capita,'' said Christie. The risk of being murdered in the United States is nine times greater than in Norway, according to a local study. Sociologist Cecilie Hoigaard listed Norway's murder rate in 1988 as 0.9 killings per 100,000 residents, compared to 1.4 in Sweden and 5.1 in France. The World Almanac said the U.S. figure was 8.3 the same year. Yet crime in Norway has increased by about 15 percent a year since 1986, according to official figures, and that's what has brought all the repercussions. ``We aren't interested in comparing ourselves to other countries,'' said Tor Aksel Busch, deputy director general of public prosecutions. ``We must compare ourselves to the way things were. It is the increase that is disturbing.'' Crimes for monetary or material gain, such as theft and fraud, represent 81 percent of the offenses. ``There is simply much more to steal because Norway's standard of living has increased enormously,'' criminologist Christie said. Norway had an economic boom when it discovered oil off its coast. From 1986 to 1988, drug arrests doubled and violent crime rose 29 percent, partly because alcohol is more accepted by ``traditionally reserved and pious Norwegians,'' Christie said. ``We Norwegians are very worried about crime,'' said Kjell Solem of the Justice Ministry. ``It is a frequent topic of debate. We started with very little and don't like the increase,'' ``Norway has an old-fashioned crime rate,'' he added. ``You have to go back 25 years to find such a low rate in Sweden. It is safe almost anywhere, any time in Norway.'' In December, robbers rammed a large truck into an armored car and escaped with about $1 million, leaving a trail of burning getaway cars. Norwegians could perhaps understand the greed but were appalled that the thieves were prepared to harm the security guards by ramming the armored car with the truck. ``People speak of moral decay, the fraying of society's fabric,'' Solem said. Crime was a major issue in last autumn's national election; everything from drugs and alcohol to video tapes and foreigners came in for the blame. The right-wing Party of Progress increased its standing in Parliament tenfold, partly on the basis of a law-and-order campaign. ``Crime has become a matter of national hysterics,'' said sociologist Thomas Mathiesen. ``There is a much greater fear of crime than there is any grounds for.'' Many Norwegians are responding by fortifying their homes. Lock sales soared 60 percent from 1987 to 1989 and burglar alarm sales are said to be on the rise. Mathiesen said fear was being spread unwittingly by the news media, politicians and even police who seek larger budgets. Tabloid newspapers routinely brand any group of criminals ``the Mafia.'' They devote sensational and lengthy coverage to murders and pursue the cases for weeks. The respected Aftenposten newspaper, in a review of the 1980s, said more crime produced more crime reporting. In the 1970s, ``trivial crimes were reported,'' it wrote. ``Now it's hard to find space for all the corruption, theft and violence.''"	" A 9-year-old boy and his aunt drowned in the Lehigh River as family members watched in horror after the two were swept away while wading across a shallow area below a dam, authorities say. Emisilda Santana, 41, and her nephew Lizandro Santiago were pronounced dead of accidental drowning Sunday despite efforts by rescuers who pulled the victims from the water and administered emergency aid on the shore. The woman's husband, Jose Santiago, and the boy's mother, Maria Pacheco, both of Allentown, were comforted by friends at the scene. The victims were among a group of six who were walking through the rapids ``when the water came and took us,'' said Esperanca Santiago, 10, a cousin of Santiago and Mrs. Santana's niece. Esperanca's brother, sister and another cousin also were in the group, she said, but all survivors escaped injuries. One child was hanging piggy-back on Mrs. Santana as the group struggled to shore, Esperanca said. She said Lizandro could not swim and had to be pulled from a public swimming pool earlier this year. Robert Dougher, 41, of Bethlehem, a Conrail policeman, said he was nearby when children came running from the wooded bank crying for help. He ran down to the river and saw Mrs. Santiago floating face down near the shore. Dougher said he pulled her ashore and gave her mouth-to-mouth and cardiopulmonary resuscitation but ``I couldn't get any vitals.'' Other rescuers arrived and tried to resuscitate the woman while two police officers tied to ropes searched for the boy in the 5-to-6-foot deep water. Two fishermen in a boat downstream found the boy in about 6 to 8 feet of water. The victims were taken to two different hospitals, where they were pronounced dead."	" The House approved a $1.8 billion 1989 appropriations bill for Congress' own expenses Thursday, an election-year measure devoid of a pay raise that many lawmakers had talked about giving themselves. The measure was approved on a 253-133 vote and sent to the Senate for final congressional approval. The appropriations bill was one of five remaining that legislators are racing to complete by Saturday's start of federal fiscal year 1989. If all 13 are enacted by Saturday, it would be the first time since 1948 that all of the spending measures that finance government agencies were in place in time for the new year. Members of Congress have received base annual salaries of $89,500 since February 1987. But lawmakers have been coming under increasing public criticism for the large sums of money most of them receive for giving speeches to industry, labor and other groups. The amount of the payments _ called honoraria _ legislators can keep each year can total up to 30 percent of each representative's salary, and up to 40 percent of each senator's pay. Lawmakers have discussed lowering or eliminating the amount of honoraria permitted in exchange for increasing the base pay. After House-Senate negotiators working on the bill discussed the proposals briefly on Wednesday, they agreed not to address the issue in the spending measure. President Reagan is scheduled to propose salary adjustments for Congress and top federal officials in January. His proposal will be based on the recommendations that a special federal salary commission are scheduled to make in December. The money in the bill represents a 3 percent, or $59 million, increase over 1988 legislative spending. Of the total package, $506 million is for the House and $341 million for the Senate. The rest is for joint items such as the Capitol Police and for congressional agencies such as the Library of Congress."	" With lessons learned from the Grenada evacuation, Charleston County officials are preparing for the possibility of a hasty civilian evacuation from Central America. ``I guess that the national network interviews of Americans in Panama made me think in terms of that. Basically, it's just headlines until you start seeing people and their concerns about things like that,'' William J. Knowles, director of Charleston County's Department of Social Services, said Friday. During the past three weeks, social services employees have been assembling ``survival boxes'' containing items ranging from registration forms to diapers. They also have a stockpile of quarters for any new arrival who might need to make a telephone call. The repatriation would be similar to the last-minute handling of the more than 500 evacuees flown to the Charleston Air Force Base after the 1983 invasion of Grenada, said Knowles. Though the Charleston Air Force Base has not been designated a civilian evacuation landing zone, Knowles said it is the most logical and convenient for the large aircraft known to supply American bases in Central America. ``We were very lucky with Grenada because this line of government dealt with that line of government right up to the State Department. But with something like an evacuation, you never know what may happen,'' he said. ``It's just been a prudent ground effort to muster the resources of an agency at a minute's notice,'' he said. ``We don't want to be in a position of having to run around looking for this and that.''"	" Three men planting explosives near a British military barracks today fired at a guard before fleeing their bungled bombing attempt, officials said. Investigators later found 65 pounds of the high-powered explosive Semtex in three satchels outside a housing block at the British army's Langenhagen Barracks in Hanover, British military officials said. It was not known who was responsible. A Ministry of Defense spokesman in London said: ``We cannot say the men were IRA at this moment in time. All we can say is that they were terrorists.'' The Irish Republican Army has been blamed for numerous attacks against British military installations in West Germany over the past few years. The IRA has waged a campaign to drive the British from Northern Ireland and unite the Protestant-dominated province with the overwhelming Roman Catholic Irish Republic. According to police, a civilian guard making the rounds with a security dog noticed three suspicious people on the barracks grounds about 2 a.m. Three shots were fired by the people, said a British military spokesman, who spoke on condition of anonymity. He said the guard was not injured. Col. Henry Day, Chief of Public Information for the British Forces in Germany, said the attackers had cut a hole in the barracks' perimeter fence. He told British Broadcasting Corp. radio that 70 soldiers were moved from the building. ``It was Semtex, with a wire timing device,'' Day said. He said one satchel contained 10 blocks of explosives, and the second nine blocks. He said he had no details on the third."	" Minorities for the first time make up more than half the city's resident labor force, a milestone that raises stark challenges for New York's social and economic future, researchers said Tuesday. ``It's a historic moment in the life of the city: Minorities have become the majority of New Yorkers in the labor market,'' said Samuel Ehrenhalt, regional chief of the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. Ehrenhalt, who reported the trend, said it will increase pressure on the city to better educate black and Hispanic youths. Other researchers said it will gradually force employers to open management jobs to minorities. ``It's a signpost on a difficult path of necessary change,'' said John Mollenkopf, a political scientist at the Graduate Center of City University. ``It points to a future that we all have to recognize and embrace.'' The labor bureau reached its conclusion after analyzing its monthly employment surveys for 1989. It found that non-Hispanic whites made up 49.7 percent of the resident labor force, under half for the first time. Out-of-town residents who work in the city _ mainly whites _ were not included in the analysis. Demographers say the city's population has been less than half white since the early or mid-1980s; it now is estimated at about 47 percent. But never before has the labor force _ residents ages 16 or older who are working or looking for work _ reached that point. Ehrenhalt said the arrival of black, Hispanic and Asian immigrants is the prime reason for the trend. The white population is about stable, and the number of native-born blacks and Hispanics has grown only slowly. ``Immigrants are playing a bigger role in New York City than they have at any time in the past three-quarters of a century,'' Ehrenhalt said. He said the trend will continue as the white population ages and leaves the workforce. ``That underscores the need to encourage a more rapid and purposeful move of minorities into the educational and occupational mainstream,'' Ehrenhalt said. ``The city economy will need them as never before.'' Lack of a high-school education is higher among minorities than among white residents, Ehrenhalt noted. And minority unemployment remains far higher _ 9.6 percent in 1989, compared with 4.1 percent for whites. Education is not the only issue. Mollenkopf said the trend increases the demands on employers to open fuller job opportunities to minority workers. Now minorities often hold lower-paying clerical jobs while senior management is virtually all white, he said. The labor bureau's figures supported the point: While 36 percent of working whites held managerial, professional and technical jobs, that fell to 24 percent of blacks and 15 percent of Hispanics. And Hispanic workers were concentrated in the declining manufacturing sector, largely in semiskilled and unskilled jobs. The city's strength is in service jobs, said Mollenkopf, ``and the higher echelons of these service firms are still basically all white. They have to come to grips with the fact that the city's labor force is multiracial. They put themselves at a disadvantage if they resist that.''"	" A group of property owners filed a damage lawsuit Tuesday on behalf of the thousands forced to evacuate their homes after a train derailment and phosphorus fire. Named as defendants in the Christian County Circuit Court lawsuit were CSX Corp. and a subsidiary, CSX Transportation Inc. The complaint alleges negligence on the part of both companies, said Tim Futrell, attorney for the nine plaintiffs, residents of the Crofton and Nortonville areas. ``We are talking in terms of hundreds of millons of dollars in damages,'' Futrell said. ``Under the rules of civil procedure, you are not permitted to specify a specific amount in the complaint.'' Futrell said he believed at least 15,000 people could be affected by the case, noting that the accident on June 22 drove about that many people from their homes in seven western Kentucky counties. Lloyd Lewis, spokesman for CSX Transportation, said Tuesday he had no comment. A CXS Transportation tanker carrying phosphorus was among 34 that left the tracks in a ravine near Crofton. The phosphorus spilled from the ruptured tanker and burned more than 12 hours after the crash. There was no fatalities. Futrell said one of the ``reasons we are filing so quickly is because CSX has dispatched representatives to the area to get people to sign releases for a pittance of what they are due.'' Futrell said some people complained about scratching and itching and difficulty in breathing, and he said there was damage to tobacco and hay crops ``and perhaps to the soil itself.'' ``Virtually all of the plaintiffs were displaced for at least three days. They lost wages and will be seeking compensation for that.''"	" Demonstrators protesting the United States' ``interventionist conduct'' in Central American hurled paint bombs at the U.S. Consulate on Friday, and two people were arrested, police said. One policeman was slightly injured in scuffles that broke out during the incident. Police spokesman Klaas Wilting said about 200 people took part in the protest. He said one or two paint bombs hit the consulate building near Amsterdam's famous Rijksmuseum. A spokesman for the demonstrators said the protest was aimed at ``recent U.S. interventionist conduct in Nicaragua, Panama ... and an imminent action in El Salvador.'' The spokesman was referring to U.S. government support for the anti-Sandinista forces in Nicaragua and the U.S. invasion of Panama in December. In El Salvador, the United States backs the government in its civil war with leftist insurgents. The spokesman did not elaborate on his claim of ``imminent action'' in that country."	" Gov. Kay Orr said Tuesday she won't campaign for re-election in a county bitterly divided over a proposed radioactive waste warehouse because her life has been threatened. Boyd County, a sparsely populated ranching area on the state's northern edge, has been in turmoil since officials began considering it as a possible home for low-level radioactive waste from five states. A rancher who opposes the plan is on a hunger strike. The Nebraska State Patrol said a letter was received in early August ``that contained some implied threats.'' Patrol spokesman Jeff Hanson declined to release any further details, saying the matter was under investigation. Hanson said the letter lacked some elements needed before authorities could charge anyone with making terroristic threats. Orr spokesman Doug Parrott said he understands that the threat is related to the nuclear waste dispute. Mrs. Orr said she knows who made the threat but wouldn't disclose the name. She said she had hoped the situation in Boyd County wouldn't deteriorate to the point of threats. ``There are a lot of things that you consider when you step into a public office,'' Mrs. Orr said. ``I think most of it was pretty well understood by Bill (her husband) and me. ``It's dismaying to think that we have gotten to this point that people lose faith and confidence in their government.'' The proposed waste site lies about two miles outside Butte, a village of about 500 people. Supporters have welcomed the money the dump may bring. Opponents have said they fear accidents and long-term effects of the radioactive waste. US Ecology, a waste site developer chosen by the Central Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Compact Commission, has applied to the state for permits to build the waste warehouse. The reinforced concrete warehouse near the South Dakota border would hold waste from the five states that make up the commission: Nebraska, Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma and Kansas. Democratic gubernatorial candidate Ben Nelson's campaign manager, Sonny Foster, said it was the first he had heard of any threat against Mrs. Orr. He said it had ``absolutely nothing'' to do with the Nelson campaign. ``I think that I can say on the behalf of Ben Nelson that we don't feel that threatening people is part of the political process and there's no way that Ben Nelson would ever condone that kind of activity,'' Foster said. Nelson has visited Boyd County and has said that he is concerned about the diisions in the community, Foster said. One rancher who opposes the waste site has been on a hunger strike for more than three weeks. Lowell Fisher of Spencer, who said Tuesday he had lost 29 pounds since his fast began on Sept. 17, said he didn't believe the threat against Mrs. Orr was a serious one. ``I think it's stupid but if you have enough people who are emotionally upset, they say something,'' Fisher said. Fisher said he intends to continue his water-only diet until the governor tells the waste compact commission that the community objects to the waste site or holds a special election to see if there is. An aide to the governor has said Mrs. Orr lacks the power to call such an election and noted that the village board has supported the waste site plans."	" The Supreme Court today refused to reinstate a $550,000 award won, and then lost, by a Texas couple whose daughter was born with deformities after her mother took the anti-nausea drug Bendectin. The justices, without comment, let stand a federal appeals court ruling that overturned a jury award against Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, the drug's manufacturer. Mr. and Mrs. Floyd Brock of Moscow, Texas, sued Merrell Dow after their daughter, Rachel, was born with deformed limbs in 1982. A three-member panel of the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals last year threw out the $550,000 judgment a federal trial jury had awarded the Brocks. The appeals court said there is no definitive scientific proof that Bendectin causes birth defects, and said the jury award was based on speculation. ``Speculation unconfirmed by ... proof cannot form the basis for causation in a court of law,'' the appeals court said. The full 5th Circuit court, by a 8-6 vote, refused to review the three-member panel's ruling. The dissenters noted that six experts testified for the Brocks that Bendectin is capable of causing birth defects, and that three testified they believed the drug caused Rachel's deformities. The dissenting judges said appellate courts should not substitute their understanding of the facts for that of a jury merely because medical experts disagree. Bendectin was marketed by Richardson-Merrell Inc. between 1957 and 1983. More than 30 million women used the drug during pregnancy. Richardson-Merrell later became Merrell Dow, which last July merged with Marion Laboratories Inc. and became Marion Merrell Dow Inc., based in Kansas City. The company stopped selling Bendectin 1983, although the Federal Drug Administration never has rescinded approval of it. Merrell Dow in 1984 agreed to pay $120 million to more than 800 families to compensate children with birth defects allegedly caused by Bendectin. As part of the settlement, the corporation did not admit that the drug caused the defects. The settlement was rejected by a federal appeals court, and the lawsuits then went to a consolidated trial in Ohio, where Merrell Dow has its headquarters in Hamilton County. After a 22-day trial in 1985, an Ohio jury found that Bendectin did not cause birth defects when taken in prescribed doses. The case acted on today is Brock vs. Merrell Dow, 89-1189."
" Gov. Evan Mecham broke the law and lied about it to the state Senate, a prosecutor said today in urging the Senate to convict the impeached first-term Republican and remove him from office. Prosecutor William French said in closing arguments that Mecham broke the law in borrowing $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund for his auto dealership. ``He has violated the law ... He has uttered untruths to you,'' French said. Earlier, prosecutor Paul Eckstein accused Mecham of showing ``a lifetime of reckless disregard for the reputation of anyne who has stood in his path to political power.'' ``Respondent (Mecham) has demonstrated for all the world to see his plain inability to tell the truth,' Eckstein said. ``How much proof is required to demonstrate that respondent puffed, exaggerated, misremembered, dissembled and out-and-out lied.'' Eckstein said Mecham's conduct in office ``was not just offensive, it was grossly offensive.'' Senators must decide whether to convict Mecham on two impeachment charges issued by the Arizona House. A third charge was dismissed. A vote could come late today or Tuesday, climaxing five weeks of trial, lawmakers said. A conviction would force the first-term Republican out of office. The first impeachment count accuses the governor of trying to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat by a state official. Mecham contended he did not intend to beak the law and that he was not fully informed of the seriousness of the alleged threat. ``Ignorance of the law is no defense,'' Eckstein told senators. But Mecham's defense lawyer, Fred Craft, told senators, ``You're being asked to politically assassinate the governor.'' ``He doesn't resign (as Mecham has been urged to) because he's not guilty of these charges,'' Craft said. ``He dares to right city hall and he's doing it at great cost to himself.'' Craft said in his closing argument that the allegation was based on a 90-second conversation with Department of Public Safety Director Ralph Milstead. Craft accused prosecutors of seeking to ``twist and torture it in such a way that it accounts for an obstruction of justice.'' As closing arguments proceeded, a trumpeter played ``Taps'' outside the Senate building as a group of men carried a mock coffin labeled, ``Herein Lies the Right to an Elected Governor.'' The prosecutor accused Mecham of making a number of statements during his Senate testimony that ``are either wrong'' or were contradicted by other witnesses. Among the examples cited by Eckstein was the governor's testimony, recanted a day later, that his former chief bodyguard had stolen a report from the governor's office. Nonetheless, Eckstein said, Mecham and Department of Public Safety Director Ralph Milstead gave ``remarkably similar'' accounts of their Nov. 15 conversation in which Mecham allegedly ordered Milstead not to cooperate with the attorney general's investigation of the alleged threat. Mecham admitted in Senate testimony that he told Milstead, ``The attorney general is out to get me and I'm not going to help him in any way.'' Mecham sat at the defense table during closing arguments. When he arrived at the Capitol, he was cheered by a group of well-wishers as he walked into the Senate building behind bodyguards. He said nothing but smiled and flashed a thumbs-up signal at the crowd. Mecham, 63, who took office in January 1987, has maintained he is innocent of wrongdoing. He also is accused of misusing $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by loaning it to his auto dealership. Last week the Senate dismissed a third charge that Mecham concealed a $350,000 campaign loan, the subject of the governor's April 21 criminal trial. Some senators said hearing testimony on that allegation could have prejudiced his criminal trial. However, Democrats acknowledged that the real reason they favored dismissing the charge was to ensure a Senate trial verdict well before the scheduled May 17 gubernatorial recall election. A two-thirds vote of the 30-member Senate is required for conviction. Lawmakers also could bar Mecham from holding any future public office. If convicted, Mecham would become the seventh U.S. governor removed from office by impeachment. The prosecution contends the governor's protocol fund _ created with inaugural ball proceeds _ was a public fund and that Mecham Pontiac needed the $80,000 loan to meet its July 1987 payroll. However, the defense said the fund was private money and that the loan was intended merely to provide a higher interest rate for the fund. Mecham Pontiac was in good financial shape and could have borrowed the money elsewhere, according to testimony by the governor's son, Dennis, who is general manager of the dealership. But the day after he testified last week, Dennis Mecham announced the dealership was being sold. Sales had suffered due to the ``avalanche of negative publicity'' about the governor, he said. The allegation regarding the death threat has boiled down to Mecham's word against that of Department of Public Safety Director Ralph Milstead. He testified that Mecham ordered him not to cooperate with the attorney general's investigation of the alleged threat by state official Lee Watkins against former top Mecham aide Donna Carlson. At the time of the alleged threat in November, Ms. Carlson was about to testify before the state grand jury regarding the $350,000 campaign loan. Senators, meanwhile, said they knew how important the impeachment vote will be. If the governor is allowed to return to his job, ``I think there'll be terrible chaos in state government,'' said Minority Leader Alan Stephens, a Democrat. Lawmakers' own careers also may hang in the balance, some senators said."	" No definite plans have been made for an expected visit to the Soviet Union by Defense Secretary Dick Cheney because the Soviets haven't suggested a date, the Pentagon spokesman said Tuesday. At the end of an October tour of U.S. military facilities, Defense Minister Dimitri Yazov invited Cheney to visit the Soviet Union. There have been ongoing exchanges in recent years between the two nations' military and defense leaders. The trip was expected to occur sometime this summer, but no date has been announced. Last month, the Bush administration called off a scheduled visit to the Soviet Union by Army Chief of Staff Gen. Carl Vuono, calling the trip inappropriate amid the tensions over Lithuania. Pentagon spokesman Pete Williams, queried at a briefing about Cheney's invitation, told reporters that no firm date had been offered by the Soviets and that there were no plans for Cheney make such a trip ``on the near horizon.'' However, Williams added, ``We are eager to do so.'' Besides meeting with Cheney at the Pentagon, Yazov visited Camp Pendleton, a Marine training base north of San Diego; Luke Air Force Base in Arizona; and Fort Bragg, home of the Army's 82nd Airborne in Fayetteville, N.C."	" Opposition leaders and Communist officials have tentatively set national elections for June, government television reported. ``According to unofficial information, the first round of (parliamentary) elections should take place on June 8,'' Czechoslovak TV said Thursday. The report came as the Communists, other political parties and the opposition Civic Forum met to review procedures for the elections and the status of independent political parties. ``The draft elections law is aimed at having the elections for the Federal Assembly and both National Councils (parliament) first ... and in the second half of the year the elections to the lower levels of representative bodies should take place,'' the television said. The 35O-member Czechoslovak Parliament is so far dominated by Communists. The discussions are expected to produce a solution to balancing its membership to reflect the current political situation. The talks are being attended by all five political parties existing before the revolution and the loosely organized opposition group, Civic Forum. About 20 new political parties have been created in Czechoslovakia the past two months, but none is represented at the current talks. The peaceful revolution in Czechoslovakia led to the ouster of Communist party chief Milos Jakes and his hard-line colleagues in late November. Dissident playwright Vaclav Havel became president last month."	" President Bush, proposing an orderly, long-term reduction in the nation's military arsenal, is backing a 25 percent cut in the armed forces by the mid-1990s, administration and Pentagon sources say. Bush was slated to make the proposal in a speech today in Aspen, Colo., as his $307 billion defense budget for fiscal 1991 has come under severe attack on Capitol Hill. ``The president will lay out the broad outlines of his new strategy for the nation's defenses and how our military must respond, based on the changes in the world that have occurred,'' said a senior administration official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. In a speech to the Aspen Institute, Bush planned to offer support for two hotly debated weapons programs _ the B-2 stealth bomber and the Strategic Defense Initiative _ and support a 25 percent cut in the armed forces by the end of 1995, the source said. A similar cut in the nation's arsenal of troops and weapons was laid out by Defense Secretary Dick Cheney as an option for budget negotiators in June, but it was derided as ``overly cautious'' by critics seeking additional budget savings. Bush planned to make the address after conferring with British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher in Aspen. It will be the fourth time Bush and Mrs. Thatcher have met in as many months. Bush's speech comes two days after the House Armed Services Committee cut $24 billion from the $307 billion the president had requested for defense spending in the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1. The panel voted to halt production of the B-2 bomber and slashed almost $2 billion from Bush's request of $4.7 billion from the anti-missile Strategic Defense Initiative, commonly known as Star Wars. It also cut military personnel by 129,500 and scaled back on two nuclear missile programs. In June, Cheney said a 25 percent force reduction could save $8.6 billion over five years as the Pentagon retired six active duty Army divisions, 111 Navy ships and 11 Air Force tactical fighter wings, and removed 442,000 men and women from the military's 2.1-million-member active duty ranks. Appearing Wednesday evening on public television's ``MacNeil-Lehrer NewsHour,'' the defense secretary hinted that even more changes could be in store. He said he had ``new base closings'' to announce, possibly as early as next week. But Cheney also complained that while the House wanted him to cut personnel, members were balking at closing unneeded bases. Bush said on July 20 at a Strategic Air Command base in Cheyenne, Wyo., that, ``We must have an orderly build-down, not some kind of a fire sale'' in defense. He indicated then that he could live with the $18 billion that the Senate Armed Services Committee voted to cut from his defense budget, but he implored Congress to ``hold the line at (that) already painful reduction.'' The senior American official said the president's remarks would follow along the lines of those made by Cheney and Gen. Colin Powell, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Both have called repeatedly for an orderly, planned reduction in troop strength so that the all-volunteer force is not gutted and morale destroyed. Powell has ordered a study to assess the ``base line force'' that the nation needs to be a superpower, another source said. Mrs. Thatcher is scheduled to address the closing session of the Aspen Institute conference on Sunday. Like Bush, she is under pressure at home to deliver a peace dividend reflecting the changing face of Europe and reduced East-West tensions. While the United States grapples with how to reduce the Pentagon budget, Mrs. Thatcher's defense secretary, Tom King, announced plans last week to reduce the size of the British army by 25 percent over five to seven years and cut its forces in West Germany in half. King also outlined cuts in the British air force and navy but said Britain would retain its nuclear arsenal. Cheney was flying separately to Aspen to attend the symposium at the non-profit institute, marking its 40th anniversary of bringing political, business and cultural leaders together to discuss global issues."	" The official Tass news agency on Wednesday called the founders of a new Soviet political party liars and scandalmongers whose actions hamper Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev's reform drive. It the first attack by the state-run media on the new Democratic Union, Tass accused members of ``slanderous, anti-social activity.'' The toughly worded dispatch indicated that officials would not tolerate any challenge the new party might mount to the ruling Communists. Past attempts to challenge the Communist Party have been crushed. About 70 people met Monday outside Moscow to create the new party, which seeks multi-party elections, independent trade unions, a new constitution and the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Eastern Europe and areas seized by the Soviet Union in World War II. Members of the Democratic Union expressed the hope that if Gorbachev is serious in his campaign for a more open society, he will allow the party to seek supporters and take part in elections, which are tightly controlled by the Communist Party. Tass said the Democratic Union's platform was a ``provocation with a political flavor'' that was so anti-constitutional it touched off arguments among group members and exposed its authors to criticism from the group itself. ``The group is nothing more than a bunch of scandalmongers deliberately smearing honest people and hampering perestroika and efforts to foster good relations between people,'' the Soviet news agency said. ``Perestroika,'' which means ``reconstruction'' in Russian, is the name given to Gorbachev's ambitious reform program for economic and social restructuring. Tass did not say why the Democratic Union's ``Declaration of Principles'' was unconstitutional, but the 1977 Soviet Constitution enshrines the Communist Party's monopoly on power, calling it the ``leading and guiding force'' of the country. Tass also defended the jailing of Sergei Grigoryants, the founder of the independent human rights journal ``Glasnost,'' who was arrested Monday. Grigoryants, a former political prisoner, had offered to let the Democratic Union group use a country cottage outside Moscow that he rents for their Monday meeting. But police surrounded the building, arrested Grigoryants in the yard, and broke down the cottage's doors to arrest others, associates of Grigoryants told a Moscow news conference Tuesday. The Tass account of Grigoryants' arrest said: ``On May 9 ... he kicked up a violent row on a trip outside Moscow and has been sentenced to seven days in jail by the People's Court of Ramenskoye in the Moscow region.'' Grigoryants, a former political prisoner, was convicted on a charge of resisting authorities. Andrei Babitsky, a fellow editor of ``Glasnost'' who was also detained at the cottage but later released, said Grigoryants had been falsely accused. Lawyer Valentin Yelisyenko, who also spoke at the dissidents' Tuesday news conference, said police had no arrest warrant for Grigoryants or any of the others arrested and had search warrant to enter the cottage."	" ``We are not undertaking any biological war. Neither troops nor caterpillars will go in without prior request and consultation.'' _ Marlin Fitzwater, White House press secretary, on an Agriculture Department program that is researching development of voracious caterpillars to kill off drug-producing coca plants in South American jungles."	" United Mine Workers strikers won concessions on health care and pension benefits and Pittston Coal Group got the ability to run its mines almost nonstop in a proposed settlement distributed to miners today. If approved by the UMW's rank-and-file in Virginia, West Virginia and Kentucky, the settlement could resolve the union's bitter and sporadically violent 10{-month strike against the nation's largest coal exporter by next week. The Associated Press obtained a copy of the proposed contract from a source who insisted on anonymity. Since Pittston and the union negotiators reached agreement on New Year's Eve, they have kept contract details secret while both sides moved to dismiss lawsuits and fines stemming from the strike. UMW President Richard Trumka announced Thursday that union members would vote on the pact Monday, despite $64 million in fines pending in a Virginia state court for illegal strike activity. More than 2,000 union members packed into a building at the Russell County Fairgrounds this morning to receive copies of the 49-page contract, listen to pep talks by the union's top officers and receive a briefing on the terms. Trumka choked back tears as he congratulated the miners on what he said was a successful strike. ``I'm proud. I'm proud you did this,'' Trumka said as he raised the contract in the air to a round of applause. Some miners grumbled about terms in the contract but most gave it a favorable review. ``There's some good, some bad,'' said Jack Hale, a 48-year-old laid-off miner. ``We'll just have to weigh the good against the bad.'' The proposal in many respects mirrors health and pension benefits contained in the 1988 Bituminous Coal Operators Association contract, the industry's national labor contract. But it differs in two significant respects: Pittston won the ability to hire contract truck drivers and maintenance workers, as long as union miners are not laid off in the process. And the company would be able to run its mines around-the-clock and seven-days-a-week, except for Christmas and the Sunday day shift. Wages were not a major issue in the strike. But miners would receive a cumulative $1.20-an-hour raise at the end of three years. Top-scale hourly pay in selected positions would be $17.52. Pittston dropped out of the health-care plan negotiated between the union and the BCOA and spurred the strike by proposing payment of 80 percent of the covered medical expenses rather than 100 percent. The UMW won its demand to maintain 100 percent medical coverage for employees, pensioners and their families. The contract has a new health-cost containment provision in which Pittston issues $500 twice-a-year to each miner and pensioner under the age of 65 to cover their deductibles. After it dropped out of the BCOA, Pittston stopped contributing to the multi-employer retirement fund and promised to take care of its own retirees. It now has agreed to go back to the union pension fund. ``Pension benefits in the new contract are identical to those contained in the 1988 national agreement,'' according to a contract summary. The company wanted to be able to contract out work in five job categories but won the limited right in two areas: transportation of coal and repair and maintenance work. The company wanted to eliminate a provision that union contracts are not broken when a union mine changes hands or is conveyed from one subsidiary to another. But the settlement retains the successorship provision in the 1984 agreement and contains ``strengthened protection for UMWA members against internal company reorganization and shifting of coal lands,'' the contract said. Pittston's significant victory was its request to establish round-the-clock operations. During negotiations, the company dropped its original demand for a Sunday day shift, with four 10-hour shifts a week instead of five eight-hour shifts and the ability to call in workers for ``reasonable overtime'' with 12 hours notice, on a mandatory basis. The UMW wanted to stick with its traditional fixed five-day work week. The contract contains two ``flextime'' work schedules in addition to the regular work week. The flextime allows the company to work continuously. Pittston did not want to reinstate miners convicted of strike-related felonies. The UMW wanted all miners reinstated. A mention of the issue could not be found in the labor agreement."	" Retired Gen. Efrain Rios Montt, who took power after a 1982 military coup but was overthrown a year later, has signed up as a presidential candidate in a November election. His action Thursday conflicts with Supreme Court and congressional rulings that he is ineligible to run because of the military coup. Rios Montt, a born-again Christian who as military ruler sent more than a dozen convicted leftists before the firing squads, is campaigning as a law-and-order candidate. Human rights workers and others are worried that Rios Montt's eye-for-an-eye brand of justice will lead to further human rights abuses in a country already plagued with them. Polls show him among the leading contenders to replace President Vinicio Cerezo. Rios Montt took power after the coup ousted Gen. Romeo Lucas Garcia on March 23, 1982. Rios Montt, in turn, was removed by Gen. Oscar Humberto Mejia Victores on Aug. 8, 1983. The Supreme Court, in a non-binding opinion sought by Congress last year, said Rios Montt cannot be president or vice president because of a constitutional ban on the holding of those posts by people who assumed power in a coup. Last month, the Association of National Dignitaries, made up of people who drew up the current constitution, arrived at the same conclusion. Rios Montt is running with the backing of three of Guatemala's 19 registered parties. Nine candidates have signed up for the presidency, including Jorge Carpio Nicolle, a journalist defeated five years ago by Cerezo. There will be a runoff on Jan. 6 if no candidate wins a majority in the Nov. 11 election. If Guatemala's elections registry refuses to accept his candidacy, Rios Montt can appeal through the court system."	" The last group of communist guerrillas in Sarawak state signed a peace accord Wednesday and laid down their arms, the national news agency Bernama reported. Some of the 51 guerrillas brought their children, including a month-old infant, to the ceremony in Kuching, 540 miles southeast of Kuala Lumpur, Bernama reported. Guerrilla leaders Ang Chu Ting and Wong Lian Kui and Sarawak State Secretary Bujang Mohamed Nor and other government officials signed the agreement, the agency said. The North Kalimantan Communist Party operated in Sarawak state, on Borneo Island, for 30 years. A first group of 569 guerrillas made peace in 1973. Last December, 1,100 more communist guerrillas laid down their arms. Government officials said the guerrillas agreed to stop fighting because the people no longer support them. The officials said the collapse of communism in Europe may have disheartened the guerrillas."	" The Supreme Court today refused to reinstate a $550,000 award won, and then lost, by a Texas couple whose daughter was born with deformities after her mother took the anti-nausea drug Bendectin. The justices, without comment, let stand a federal appeals court ruling that overturned a jury award against Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, the drug's manufacturer. Mr. and Mrs. Floyd Brock of Moscow, Texas, sued Merrell Dow after their daughter, Rachel, was born with deformed limbs in 1982. A three-member panel of the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals last year threw out the $550,000 judgment a federal trial jury had awarded the Brocks. The appeals court said there is no definitive scientific proof that Bendectin causes birth defects, and said the jury award was based on speculation. ``Speculation unconfirmed by ... proof cannot form the basis for causation in a court of law,'' the appeals court said. The full 5th Circuit court, by a 8-6 vote, refused to review the three-member panel's ruling. The dissenters noted that six experts testified for the Brocks that Bendectin is capable of causing birth defects, and that three testified they believed the drug caused Rachel's deformities. The dissenting judges said appellate courts should not substitute their understanding of the facts for that of a jury merely because medical experts disagree. Bendectin was marketed by Richardson-Merrell Inc. between 1957 and 1983. More than 30 million women used the drug during pregnancy. Richardson-Merrell later became Merrell Dow, which last July merged with Marion Laboratories Inc. and became Marion Merrell Dow Inc., based in Kansas City. The company stopped selling Bendectin 1983, although the Federal Drug Administration never has rescinded approval of it. Merrell Dow in 1984 agreed to pay $120 million to more than 800 families to compensate children with birth defects allegedly caused by Bendectin. As part of the settlement, the corporation did not admit that the drug caused the defects. The settlement was rejected by a federal appeals court, and the lawsuits then went to a consolidated trial in Ohio, where Merrell Dow has its headquarters in Hamilton County. After a 22-day trial in 1985, an Ohio jury found that Bendectin did not cause birth defects when taken in prescribed doses. The case acted on today is Brock vs. Merrell Dow, 89-1189."	" A massive worldwide outpouring of sympathy brought London firefighters, French search dogs, tons of tents and blankets and medicine to the Soviet Union on Friday to help in the Armenian earthquake. Western countries, the Soviet Union's East bloc allies and even groups not recognized by the Kremlin pledged millions of dollars of aid in a relief effort that crossed political boundaries and cut quickly through Soviet red tape. ``We are awaiting more planes from foreign countries. We badly need them and are grateful for what they are bringing us,'' said Robert Gastoryan, an assistant to the director of the Yerevan's Zvarnots airport. About 80,000 people were killed in Tuesday's earthquake, Leonid Zamyatin, the Soviet ambassador to Britain, said in London. Hundreds of thousands were left homeless."	" Syndicated columnist Carl T. Rowan, calling himself a pawn in a larger gun-control debate, pleaded innocent Monday to charges he used an unregistered weapon to shoot a teen-ager who took an uninvited dip in his backyard pool. Rowan has been charged with one count each of possessing an unregistered weapon, and possessing ammunition for the gun, in connection with the June 14 shooting. Both are misdemeanors. District of Columbia Superior Court Hearing Commissioner Kaye Christian scheduled trial for Sept. 22, and released Rowan on his own recognizance. Rowan requested a jury trial. If he is convicted on both charges, the columnist could face a maximum penalty of two years in prison and a $2,000 fine. The district's 1976 handgun ordinance essentially bans posession of handguns and ammunition not owned at the time the law was passed, except for law officers. After his court appearance, Rowan lashed out at those who say he is hypocritical for using a handgun. ``I am aware that I am the pawn in a brutal game between those who favor and those who oppose handgun control,'' Rowan said, reading a prepared statement to dozens of reporters and television camera crews. ``I want to make it clear that I still favor a strict national law to control the availability of handguns. ``There is no hypocrisy in advocating a national policy that no one seems to be able to get through Congress,'' he said. The columnist also asserted that he has received additional death threats since the shooting incident. He had previously told police that he obtained the weapon used in the shooting after receiving similar threats in 1982. Rowan has said that the gun and ammunition were originally owned by his son, Carl Jr., who was told that he did not need to register them because he was serving as an FBI agent at the time. Outside the courthouse, a half-dozen handgun advocates rallied in support of the columnist's right to bear arms. ``We think that Carl Rowan may be guilty of raving hypocrisy, but he shouldn't be charged in a court of law today for protecting his home with a gun,'' said Lee Bellinger, the leader of Action for America, a conservative activist group that champions the right to private handgun ownership. ``We welcome him into the family of people protecting their home with guns.'' Other supporters carried posters reading, ``Warning: This home protected by Carl Rowan,'' coupled with a Rambo-like drawing of Rowan's head atop a muscle-bound, gun-toting torso. Still others displayed signs reading, ``Leave Carl Rowan alone.'' ``It (the Rowan shooting) shows what can happen in a moment of panic,'' said Sarah Brady, wife of James Brady, President Reagan's press secretary. She was not at the rally, but said in a telephone interview, ``With the handgun, in most cases you see more cases of misuse than you do anything else.'' Brady became president of Handgun Control, an anti-handgun group, after her husband suffered permanent brain damage when he was wounded during John Hinckley Jr.'s attempt to assassinate Reagan in 1981. Rowan, 62, was cleared last month of assault charges in the shooting incident after an investigation by federal prosecutors. U.S. Attorney Jay Stephens said at the time that he thought Rowan should be prosecuted on the weapons charges, but deferred that decision to District of Columbia officials, who normally decide whether to prosecute such cases. The shooting occurred, Rowan said, when he heard noises in his backyard, called police, and discovered Benjamin Smith, 18, of suburban Chevy Chase, Md., and three other youths by his pool. Rowan shot Smith in the wrist when, he said, the youth lunged at him. Smith and a companion Laura Bachman, 19, were charged with unlawful entry, but prosecutors dropped the misdemeanor charges in exchange for 40 hours of community service work."	" RJR Nabisco Inc. is adding another element to the epic takeover battle for the food and tobacco conglomerate, with its board of directors considering the possible sale of its food businesses in advance of any takeover. The possible sale of the food businesses, which last year accounted for about 60 percent of the company's $15.8 billion in net sales, was announced Monday by the special committee appointed by the board to evaluate the unprecedented multibillion-dollar buyout offers already made for RJR Nabisco. The committee also said it had set a Nov. 18 deadline for submission of any proposals to acquire either the entire company or just its tobacco businesses, and warned bidders that it would not consider their offers if they did not agree to the terms it set for the auction. RJR Nabisco already is the target of a record $20.3 billion tender offer _ worth $90 a share _ by the New York investment firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts Inc. and a rival proposal by Nabisco management to acquire the company for $20.7 billion, or $92 a share. The New York buyout firm Forstmann Little & Co. announced last week it led an investor group _ including consumer products giant Procter & Gamble Co., the investment firm Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Ralston Purina Co. _ interested in a possible counteroffer that would surpass both existing bids. RJR stock rose $1.75 a share to $87.37{ in New York Stock Exchange composite trading on Monday. The special committee said that if the board decided to sell RJR's food businesses, the after-tax proceeds would be paid to shareholders before any acquisition of RJR. ``Accordingly, parties are invited to submit proposals on a basis which, in effect, would involve acquiring RJR Nabisco as a stand-alone tobacco company,'' the committee stated. Furthermore, the committee has ordered its financial advisers to explore available alternatives other than a buyout of the company. Industry analysts have estimated RJR Nabisco's food businesses would bring a sale price ranging from $12.5 billion to $15.5 billion. Atlanta-based RJR Nabisco makes such well-known brands as Winston and Camel cigarettes, Oreo cookies and Del Monte vegetables. The committee said it had made no final decision on whether to sell the company or any of its parts, and that the board had decided to take no position on the pending tender offer by Kohlberg Kravis. In addition, the committee stated it was inviting the inclusion in bids of a ``substantial common stock-related equity component.'' The panel's announcement did not elaborate on the reasons for the request, although including stock in their offers would enable bidders to increase the value of their bids without having to come up with more cash. The panel also warned that it would consider any attempt to bid for the company outside of its guidelines would be considered a hostile overture, and neither the special committee nor the board would consider offers from any bidders that had not agreed to those terms. A buyout of the RJR Nabisco food businesses would mirror the recent trend that has seen the acquisitions and sometimes breaking up of the nation's biggest food companies. Last month, Kraft Inc. agreed to be acquired by food and tobacco giant Philip Morris Companies Inc. in a $13.1 billion buyout, the second-biggest U.S. corporate acquisition ever. There also is a battle being waged by Pillsbury Co. against a $5.2 billion hostile buyout offer by Britain's Grand Metropolitan PLC, a food, liquor and real estate conglomerate. The big food companies are considered attractive because of their established brand names and relative steady businesses, which are regarded as recession proof."	" The Reagan administration told the Supreme Court today that mandatory drug tests for some railroad workers and U.S. Customs Service employees are vital to public safety and confidence in government. Attorney General Dick Thornburgh, in an unusual move, appeared himself to plead for testing of rail workers after train accidents. ``This is a case about railway safety,'' he said. It is about ``the hazards created by use of drugs and alcohol by those in charge of trains.'' Solicitor General Charles Fried, the administration's top courtroom lawyer, defended the Customs Service drug testing program. ``There is rather special, urgent and symbolic significance'' in assuring the public that the agency responsible for preventing drug smuggling has a drug-free work force, Fried said. ``The Customs Service is indeed entitled to take a fine filter to show to itself, its workers and the public that (workers) are not involved in drug use,'' he said. The drug tests were attacked as a ``humiliating invasion of privacy'' by Lois Williams, representing the Customs Service workers. ``Innocent persons have a great deal of reason to be apprehensive,'' she said. Lawrence Mann, an attorney for the railway workers, said the drug tests are unconstitutional because they are incapable of proving on-the-job impairment. ``Neither the alcohol nor the drug test can demonstrate impairment,'' he said. The tests can show the presence of a residue from a drug that may have been taken by ``someone 60 days ago in the privacy of home.'' The two cases will provide a crucial test for mandatory drug testing in the American workplace. Thornburgh's appearance underscored the importance of today's two-hour argument session. Benjamin Civiletti was the last attorney general to argue a case before the justices when he appeared in 1980 to present the Carter administration's side in a case involving the deportation of an alleged Nazi. Thornburgh last argued a case before the high court in 1977 when he headed the Justice Department's criminal division. In today's cases, the justices agreed to decide whether the nation's railroads may require all employees involved in accidents to take drug tests; and whether the Customs Service may impose the tests for those seeking drug-enforcement jobs. Both cases involve governmental authority to test workers for the presence of drugs. The eventual rulings by the court, expected sometime in 1989, will not deal with drug tests for private employees. But the decisions could have an important psychological impact on whether businesses will demand that their workers undergo such tests. Tests conducted by federal, state or local governments will be affected directly by the court's action. In the railroad case, the Federal Railroad Administration issued regulations in 1985 aimed at alleviating ``a significant safety problem'' caused by alcohol and drug use among employees. The agency, an arm of the U.S. Department of Transportation, generally requires railroads to take blood and urine specimens after accidents, incidents and rules violations. The 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled in February that the tests are unreasonable searches banned by the Constitution's Fourth Amendment. ``Accidents, incidents or rule violations, by themselves, do not create reasonable grounds for suspecting that tests will demonstrate alcohol or drug impairment in any one railroad employee, much less an entire train crew,'' the appeals court said. Government lawyers have said that from 1972 through 1983, railroad accidents linked to drug or alcohol abuse killed 42 people, injured 61 and caused some $19 million in property damage. In the Customs Service case, the government contends the need to fight drug smuggling justifies mandatory tests for those applying for or holding drug-enforcement jobs. Workers in such sensitive jobs must provide urine samples in restroom stalls as a person overseeing the procedure waits outside the stall. Testing was authorized under an executive order President Reagan signed in 1986. The Reagan administration has said the tests are needed to prevent agents who use drugs from being bribed or blackmailed. Any sacrifice of personal privacy is outweighed by the need to stop drug smuggling, the administration said. The National Treasury Employees Union, in challenging the tests, said they subject workers to a humiliating invasion of privacy. The 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the tests for Customs Service workers in such sensitive jobs."	" Drug smugglers using small planes easily evade federal rules requiring the registration of aircraft and pilots, a government informant told Congress on Wednesday. The witness, testifying from behind a screen and identified only as the former bookkeeper of an international drug ring, said the federal registration rules were ``very easy to beat. Nothing to it.'' The witness told the House Public Works and Transportation Committee of airplane bills of sale that never were sent to the Federal Aviation Administration, of fictitious names and addresses reported for buyers and sellers, and of signatures scrawled illegibly on FAA forms and modifications _ such as installation of long-range fuel tanks _ that went unreported to the government. The FAA did not pursue such gaps in documentation and in some cases required no records that would make it easier to track down aircraft owners and pilots, the witness said. ``I didn't see a vast amount of brilliance in the smuggling community,'' said the man, who was referred to by the legislators as ``Mr. Smith.'' ``If you give them an opportunity to make mistakes and leave a paper trail, it seems to me they'll make mistakes and leave a paper trail.'' Rep. Glenn Anderson, D-Calif., chairman of the committee, said 64 percent of the cocaine and marijuana seized in the United States last year was captured on small planes owned by individuals or businesses. He cited a report by the Office of Technology Assessment, a research arm of Congress, that estimated that there are 1,300 to 3,500 drug-smuggling flights by small planes entering the country annually. In what has been the usual procedure in the spate of drug hearings held by Congress during this election year, the witness was accompanied by several armed Capitol police officers who stood guard inside and outside the hearing room. The man said he was a former member of the federal witness protection program and was on probation after pleading guilty to state charges of conspiracy to smuggle cocaine and racketeering. He said he had worked for a ``loose confederation'' of Americans, Colombians, Bahamians and others who smuggled cocaine into the United States aboard aircraft. He was responsible for the registration and ownership documents of more than 40 planes used by the participants, some used for legitimate businesses they owned and others for smuggling. To disguise the planes' ownership, the witness said he often had foreigners sign registration forms and use difficult to trace American mailing addresses. He would at times use addresses of apartment complexes without supplying apartment numbers, and arrange to have people who lived at the complexes watch for piles of undelivered mail and relay it. The witness also said mechanics who modified the planes he used often knew why the equipment was being installed on the aircraft. ``As a result, they had no interest in making any documentation of the work which they would have had to sign, for fear of jeopardizing their licenses,'' he said. At the same hearing, four drug investigators complained that they were frequently hindered by federal regulations that made it possible for smugglers to hide their identities. ``Aircraft identification and registered owner identification is an elusive veil behind which the smuggler finds refuge,'' said Carol Knapik, an undercover detective in the Broward County, Fla., sheriff's office. She also testified from behind screens. Janet Hale, an assistant secretary of the Department of Transportation, told the lawmakers that the FAA was trying to improve its registration systems so it could provide more information to law enforcement agencies. The public works committee is considering legislation that would require the FAA to improve its record-keeping system."	" Sen. Bob Dole's proposal to boost aid to Eastern Europe and Panama by cutting funds from major recipients like Israel and Egypt is ``shortsighted and detrimental'' to U.S. interests, 22 Republican House members say. The House members wrote to President Bush on Wednesday to express ``our strong opposition to the Dole foreign aid plan,'' which would slice money from Israel, Egypt, Turkey, the Philippines and Pakistan. ``We believe this is the wrong approach to the burgeoning needs of Eastern Europe,'' said the House members, led by Reps. Vin Weber of Minnesota and Bill McCollum of Florida. ``To reward one ally at the expense of another would be shortsighted and detrimental to American interests,'' they said. At the same time, Sen. Nancy Kassebaum, Dole's Republican colleague from Kansas, said she supported Dole and hoped his plan would lead to ``serious review and substantive reform'' of foreign aid. Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell, D-Maine, has not taken a stand on the issue, but he is holding meetings with Democratic colleagues to discuss foreign aid, his aides said. Kassebaum, who has introduced legislation to change the way foreign aid is divided up, criticized Congress for ``earmarking'' _ locking up _ 80 percent of the foreign aid budget. As a result, U.S. officials have no flexibility to deal with unforeseen circumstances, she said in a speech on the Senate floor. ``With earmarking, we have set up a system that prevents us from responding to opportunities'' like those in Eastern Europe, she said. Dole suggested changing the 1990 foreign aid budget that earmarks about $3 billion to Israel, slightly less to Egypt, about $500 million each to Turkey and Pakistan and some $160 million in economic aid to the Philippines. His plan would trim 5 percent from the big recipients, creating about $400 million that could go to Eastern Europe and Panama. Many have criticized Dole's plan. ``It's not going anywhere. Period,'' said Sen. Tom Harkin, D-Iowa, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. Debate on the 1991 foreign aid bill is expected to start soon, once the Bush administration unveils its requests next week. Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., chairman of the Senate appropriations subcommittee on foreign operations, has said his panel will hold hearings ``reexamining U.S. foreign aid priorities in light of the vast changes in the international situation.'' ``As far as I'm concerned, every program in the fiscal 1991 foreign aid appropriation will be reviewed,'' Leahy said in a statement. On Jan. 18, Israeli Defense Minister Yitzhak Rabin met with Bush administration officials and later said he had ``reasons to believe'' U.S. aid to his country would hold steady at $3 billion a year through 1991. But he expressed concern about aid beyond next year."	" Madrid's suspension of aid to Cuba underscores pressure for democratic change in the former Spanish colony and further isolates Fidel Castro at a time when his main benefactor, Moscow, is getting stingier. ``It's an abrupt and historic decision,'' said political scientist Manuel Alcantara, a professor of Latin American affairs at Madrid's Complutense University. ``Because of the events in Eastern Europe, Spain feels some kind of responsibility about Cuba, to work for change there.'' As of today, 18 Cubans were in the Spanish mission in Havana, the Spanish news agency EFE reported. Nine sought refuge today, it said, and on Friday five entered the embassy. The four others sought refuge last week. Spain says it will not expel the asylum-seekers and will try to negotiate their departure from Cuba. Cuba calls all those who have sought refuge in the Spanish, Czech and Italian missions ``scum'' and habitual vagrants. Spain's secretary of state for international cooperation, Luis Yanez, told reporters in Brussels on Thursday that Spain was suspending $2.5 million in direct grants-in-aid to Cuba, the country's total this year to the island that was a Spanish colony for 406 years until 1898. While the sum is not substantial, another Spanish Foreign Ministry official hinted Friday that the move probably would not be the last to try to pressure the government of President Fidel Castro to grant more freedom to Cubans. ``More measures will be necessary,'' said Yago Pico de Coana, director general for Latin American affairs. He said it would be imprudent to elaborate. Spain has also recalled its ambassador in Havana for consultations. Cuba already has had to cope with a trade embargo by the United States and a loss of support from the Soviet Union and from East European countries that shed their Communist governments since last year. Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev, whose reforms Castro has criticized, is not as forthcoming on aid as in the past. Castro repeatedly has rejected Western-style balloting and said his country has no need for Soviet-style reform _ despite pressure from Gorbachev. As criticism of Cuba has appeared in official Soviet media, Castro has called on Cubans to brace for possible cuts in the Soviets' $5 billion in yearly aid. U.S. sources last year said there had been substantial reductions already, as evidenced in the marked decline in the purchase of sugar, which the Soviet Union buys from Cuba at prices substantially higher than world market levels as a form of subsidy. Castro also has lost his two closest Caribbean allies _ Panama's Manuel Antonio Noriega, who was toppled in a U.S. invasion in December, and Nicaragua's leftist Sandinistas, who were defeated by a U.S.-backed opposition coalition in elections Feb. 25. Yanez said the Spanish aid cutoff effectively severed Cuba's ``umbilical cord'' with Spain that afforded access to the European Community. He said resumption of the aid was contingent on ``the resolution of problems through political channels.'' Cuba has been attempting to reach some kind of aid agreement with the 12-nation West European trading bloc but without success. A Spanish government spokesman, who is customarily not identified, denied that the decision to suspend aid represented a major shift in policy toward Cuba. He said the action was in keeping with remarks Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez made to Castro in March about the need for the Marxist nation to move toward democracy. Spain has maintained cordial ties throughout its own authoritarian and democratic administrations with the former colony. Both Gen. Francisco Franco and the democratically elected administrations that have governed Spain since his death in 1975 have assured Castro easy credit to purchase Spanish goods and finance long-term projects. Cuba's total commercial debt with Madrid is estimated at about $900 million, making Spain Cuba's second-most important creditor after the Soviet Union, to which Cuba owes an estimated $3 billion. The conservative Madrid daily ABC, an outspoken opponent of both the Castro and Gonzalez governments, pointed out that Yanez's annoucement didn't affect Spain's soft-loan program to Cuba, for which $11 million are earmarked this year _ nor its commercial credit and guarantee program designed to back up Spanish exports to Cuba. The Spanish Export Credit Insurance Co. held about $780 million in debts on exports to Cuba last year. Cuba consumes 15 percent of Spain's trade to Latin America, according to Economy Ministry figures."	" A peace activist broke a 63-day liquid-only fast _ one day for each million dollars allegedly spent on ``Rambo III'' _ by biting into a giant pizza with a pepperoni peace sign and delivering it to Sylvester Stallone's door. Jerry Rubin, a Southern California campaigner against cinema violence and war toys, didn't see Stallone but was more graciously received Saturday than in a previous visit to a Stallone residence when someone squirted him with water over a wall. The actor's housekeeper even obliged when Rubin needed to do a retake of his stunt for TV cameras. Rubin's wife, Marissa, and two friends were on hand as the activist went to Stallone's home and, with media watching, presented the pizza to a housekeeper. When a television crew arrived late, Rubin went back to the door and got his pizza back to re-enact the event. At one point, the unwieldy, 3-foot-wide pizza slipped off its cardboard platter and onto the concrete driveway. After his first bite in 63 days, Rubin said he was looking forward ``to watching movies with popcorn again.'' One of the placards carried by the group read, ``Sly, Give Pizza A Chance.'' Rubin said he hoped his attempt at humor would open a line of communication with Stallone and other makers of violent films. ``We need to reach them to open up that dialogue because it has gotten out of hand,'' he said. ``In 10 or 20 years from now we're going to pay a sad price, because these films not only have a negative effect on children but they have a negative effect on everyone.''"	" The Supreme Court today strengthened the right of criminal suspects to have lawyers present when they are questioned by police. By a 6-2 vote, the justices overturned the murder conviction of Mississippi death row inmate Robert S. Minnick, who confessed when he was questioned without his lawyer present. The court said Minnick's rights were violated even though he earlier had consulted with his lawyer and agreed to talk to authorities. Unless the suspect initiates such a talk with police, the court said, he may not be questioned outside the presence of his lawyer once he has invoked his right to a lawyer. In other action, the court: - Left intact a lawsuit settlement that eased restrictions on abortion clinics in Illinois. The court, without comment, rejected an appeal by two nurses and two expectant fathers who said the settlement does not adequately protect women or fetuses. - Refused to kill a lawsuit against a California community college's officials accused of unlawful censorship for blocking the on-campus performance of a racially charged play. The court, without comment, rejected an appeal by the college officials. - Shielded businesses from some big-money lawsuits filed by employees who claim they were fired so their employers would not have to pay pension benefits. The court ruled unanimously that fired employees may not sue4 in state courts over such allegations. The state suits are pre-empted by a federal law protecting pensions, the court said. Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, writing for the court in the confession case, said, ``There can be no doubt that the interrogation in question was initiated by the police. It was a formal interview which (Minnick) was compelled to attend.'' ``Since (Minnick) made a specific request for counsel before the interview, the police-initiated interrogation was impermissible.'' In a dissenting opinion, Justice Antonin Scalia said the majority was ``misguided'' to discourage ``an honest confession.'' He said the ruling undermines a ``belief in either personal responsibility or the moral claim of just government to obedience.'' He was joined by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist. Justice David H. Souter did not take part in the case. Minnick and James ``Monkey'' Dyess escaped from Clarke County, Miss., jail in April 1986 and went looking for guns, authorities said. Police said the two men fatally shot Donald Ellis Thomas and Lamar Lafferty when the victims returned to Thomas's mobile home to find Minnick and Dyess there. Minnick was arrested in Lemon Grove, Calif., on Aug. 22, 1986. FBI agents ended their questioning of him when he asked for a lawyer. Minnick then met with an attorney who advised him not to answer any more questions. A few days later, Deputy Sheriff J.C. Denham of Clarke County flew to California and questioned Minnick. The suspect confessed, saying he shot Lafferty because Dyess was threatening to kill Minnick if he did not. Minnick was convicted in Mississippi and sentenced to death. The Mississippi Supreme Court, in upholding his conviction, said Denham's questioning of Minnick did not violate a rule the U.S. Supreme Court established in 1981. The high court barred police from questioning a suspect who has asked for a lawyer unless the suspect initiates the conversation. Today the high court extended that ruling to instances in which a suspect already has conferred with an attorney. Kennedy said the 1981 ruling is designed to prevent police from badgering a defendant into giving up the right to a lawyer provided by the court's famous Miranda ruling in 1966. The threat of badgering is no less after the suspect has talked to his lawyer, Kennedy said. ``A single consultation with an attorney does not remove the suspect from persistent attempts by officials to persuade him to waive his rights or from the coercive pressures that accompany custody and that may increase as custody is prolonged,'' he said. The case is Minnick vs. Mississippi, 89-6332."	" A 17-year-old high school student held a classmate hostage at gunpoint Monday after taking over a classroom and then freeing his teacher and five other students, officials said. The student, Eli Dean, made no demands and fired no shots. Negotiators were communicating with him over the school's intercom system, said state police Sgt. Marvin Jenkins. ``The important thing is we don't want anybody injured and we don't think he does either,'' Jenkins said. The rest of the 643-student school was evacuated onto the school football field. Hostage negotiators were at the school, and two state police chaplains were flown in. Members of Dean's family also were present, including his father, Robin, a civilian employee of the state police. Jenkins said snipers were positioned around the school, but that officials were keepings their options open. ``We're not making a move ... We're not in any great rush to do things,'' he said. The student, a senior, had been suspended from school twice during the past two weeks. He returned to the school late Monday morning with a handgun, officials said. Dean let his teacher leave first, and then later let most of the students go. The youth's stepfather, Rocky Williams of Charlestown, said he believed Dean had taken his .44-calibre pistol to the school. State police said they did not know what type of weapon the boy had. Williams said his stepson was suspended about two weeks ago after he accidentally set off a fire alarm. He was suspended again last week for breaking a window, Williams said. ``He was falling behind in his school work and was upset,'' his stepfather said. Police refused to speculate on Dean's motives. ``Maybe the fact that he's 17 years old is as much reason as anything,'' Jenkins said."	" The Senate on Wednesday wished the crew of the space shuttle Discovery ``Godspeed, good luck and a safe journey home'' on their mission scheduled to take off Thursday morning. In a resolution introduced by the body's leadership and passed by voice vote, the Senate congratulated the men and women of the U.S. space program for the work they had done on the mission and wished good luck to shuttle commander Rick Hauck and rest of the Discovery crew. The measure was introduced by Senate Majority Leader Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., and Minority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan. Co-sponsors included former astronaut, Sen. John Glenn, D-Ohio, the first American to orbit the Earth, and Sen. Jake Garn, R-Utah, first congressional observer to fly in space. The flight will be the first since the explosion of the shuttle Challenger on Jan. 28, 1986. Dole said that since the Challenger crash, ``Our space program has been under intense scrutiny. Tomorrow will be no different. The successful launch of the Discovery will be the beginning of a new era in America's exploration in space.''"	" While first-year associates at the city's 20 largest law offices can expect to pull down about $71,000 a year, paychecks for the most senior associates vary by as much as 56 percent, according to a new survey. The study published in Monday's edition of the New York Law Journal found that 17 of the 20 firms pay first-year associates $70,000, $71,000 or $72,000. However, by the seventh year, base salaries vary from Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft's $108,000 to $169,000 at Sullivan & Cromwell. George D. Reycraft, a partner at Cadwalader, told the newspaper that associates normally get a bonus at his firm. ``You see similar salaries in the early years because the firms are all competing for the same scarce resource coming out of the top law schools,'' said William C. Cobb, a Houston-based legal consultant. In its survey, the publication found average compensation for lawyers at the 20 firms are: $71,700, first year; $80,000, second year; $85,800, third year; $101,900, fourth year; $114,800, fifth year; $126,200, sixth year; and $139,000, seventh year."	" Housing starts continued to fall in March from their January peak, the government reported Tuesday, but many analysts said the decline had bottomed out. The Commerce Department reported that starts of new homes and apartments fell 9.3 percent last month, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.32 million units _ a pace many analysts said probably would continue. ``We might see levels like we had in March during most of the rest of the year,'' said economist Thomas Holloway of the Mortgage Bankers Association. The drop was the sharpest since a 12.4 percent plunge in January 1989, but was expected after starts jumped 23.2 percent to an annual rate of 1.57 million units during January's record warm weather. They slipped to 1.46 million in February, still well above the level of the last 11 months of 1989 as unusually warm weather continued. ``It isn't so much that housing is plunging as it is a correction in the data to the bulge earlier this year which couldn't be sustained,'' said Allen Sinai, chief economist for The Boston Co. David Berson, chief economist for the Federal National Mortgage Association, noted that all of the decline was in single-family homes, which fell 12 percent to an annual rate of 1.02 million units. Nevertheless, Berson added, the March rate ``still is a very good number, better than most months of 1989.'' Single-family starts totaled 1 million last year. On the other hand, multifamily starts gained 0.9 percent to an annual rate of 306,000 _ ``up a tad, but still at an abysmally low number,'' said David Seiders, chief economist for the National Association of Home Builders. Apartment starts plunged 35.3 percent in February after a 37.1 percent jump the previous month. In addition to the weather, analysts had attributed the January gain to builders wanting to get construction under way before expensive new regulations designed to make apartments more accessible to the handicapped went into effect. Seiders blamed the ``incredible weakness'' in apartment starts on fair housing regulations for the handicapped that he said would add as much as $3,000 to the cost of multifamily units and on a construction credit crunch brought on by the August savings and loan bailout law. The biggest decline in starts was experienced the Northeast, where the real estate industry has been in the doldrums in recent months. They were down 37.8 percent, to 138,000 units, after advancing 32.1 percent in February. ``We though we had seen hopeful signs'' in the Northeast, Seiders said, ``but it clearly was a temporary, weather-based effect. Now it's showing it is the weakest housing component in the country.'' Other declines were posted in the South, down 11.5 percent to 524,000 units, and the West, down 0.5 percent to 376,000 units. The Midwest registered the only gain, up 6.8 percent to 293,000 units. Applications for building permits, often a barometer of future housing activity, fell 7.6 percent after dropping 25.2 percent the previous month. The 1.21 million applications were the lowest since 1.15 million permits were sought in October 1982."	" All nations must face up to the threat of a climate disaster and take steps against global warming, Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain said Tuesday. Thatcher, in a keynote speech to a United Nations meeting of ministers on the issue, said much more research is needed but a ``clear case for precautionary action'' exists now. ``It is a race against time ... to save our planet,'' French Prime Minister Michel Rocard told the officials from some 120 countries, including more than 80 ministers. In an appeal aimed in good part at the United States and the Soviet Union, Mrs. Thatcher demanded all countries begin work on binding commitments to rein in rising pollution by ``greenhouse gases.'' The limits would be for a planned global treaty on climate change to be ready in 1992. But there were increasing signs Tuesday that ministers, contrary to European Community hopes, will fail to agree on targets or deadlines so as not to endanger Wednesday's conference-ending declaration. ``Not to come to a result would be a very bad signal,'' German environment minister Klaus Toepfer told reporters. ``We have to do our best to come to a minimum compromise.'' Environmental groups said the draft declaration looks ``more like a non-declaration as all the crucial points on carbon dioxide reduction targets, dates and the urgent call for immediate action have been removed.'' Carbon dioxide pollution, much of it from burning fossil fuels, is seen as the leading cause of global warming. Methane and chlorofluorocarbons are other heat-trapping ``greenhouse gases.'' Americans and Soviets are the biggest contributors of man-made carbon dioxide emissions. Washington opposes immediate targets against carbon dioxide pollution, saying more scientific data is needed to justify the enormous costs involved in changing ways of life. The Soviet Union, Saudi Arabia and some other countries also have reservations. China sounded a Third World note of reluctance. ``Measures to protect the global climate should not hinder the economic development of developing countries,'' delegate Song Jian told the two-day meeting. Mrs. Thatcher, who holds a chemistry degree, warned climate change could occur more quickly than current computer models suggest. ``Should this happen it would be doubly disastrous were we to shirk the challenge now.'' Many steps would be ``sensible in any event'' - improving energy efficiency, developing alternative sources of supply, reforestation, rethinking industrial processes and tackling the waste problem, she said. Mrs. Thatcher and Rocard followed the lead of scientists from some 100 countries, who met last week in the conference's first part. The experts made plain that global warming undoubtedly exists and appealed to politicians for immediate measures. Scientists say global temperatures could rise at their fastest rate in 10,000 years next century if nothing is done. Among the feared upheavals are rising sea levels that would displace coastal dwellers, desertification and vast changes affecting wildlife. Bikenibeu Paeniu, prime minister of Tuvalu, told delegates they may hold the key to the ``continued existence'' of his South Pacific coral atoll group and other islands. ``We in the Pacific, the Carribbean and elsewhere have done the least to create these hazards but now stand the most to lose,'' he said."	" The rage of Hong Kong these days is easy to spot. Just look for the tiny antennas, the telltale sign of the portable telephones so many people are carrying wherever they go. Despite price tags of $2,000 or more, the hand-held telephones have become a huge hit in this British colony, where doing business is a 24-hour preoccupation and new status symbols are always in demand. Downtown streets are filled with professionals ready for business with the cellular phones tucked under their arms or stuffed, antenna-up, into briefcases. Away from the financial district, people can be seen barking into the phones while eating in restaurants, riding public buses and ferries, or sitting in darkened movie theaters. Everyone from executives to proprietors of produce stalls can be seen chatting away. The Hong Kong Standard newspaper spotted a telephone in a recent 100-kilometer (62-mile) charity walk along a rural trail. ``In driving rain and a lashing wind, a young man was spotted eagerly and conspicuously talking into his mobile telephone,'' it said. ``In a more normal society one would expect (him) to hand the phone over to one of his seconds before starting the race. (But) a few kilometers down the track, the young man was spotted merrily informing the financial markets at large of his continued existence.'' The government estimates about 60,000 portable cellular telephones _ roughly six times earlier projections _ will be in use by the end of the year in this territory of 5.7 million people, said Deputy Postmaster General Henry Wise, whose department is in charge of telecommunications. While most cellular telephones sold in other countries are for use in cars, roughly three-fourths of the units sold in Hong Kong since the market opened three years ago have been the more expensive handheld models. ``We were amazed when the whole thing really took off in a great way,'' Wise said. Hutchison Telephone Co, which has sold about 26,000 cellular telephones, recently stopped sales for six weeks because demand was outpacing the company's capacity to handle all the calls. ``The market just caught everybody by surprise,'' said Peter Grant, president of China Telephone Co. Ltd., a rival firm. ``We're all frantically rebuilding networks.'' Harry Hui, a psychology lecturer at the University of Hong Kong, attributed the popularity of the telephones here in part to ``the importance of face. It's a status symbol.'' Wise believes the Hong Kong work ethic of doing business whenever and wherever possible is largely responsible for the tremendous sales. ``Virtually the whole day is part of the working day,'' he said. Although industry officials see no end in sight to demand for the telephones, their indiscriminate use in public places already is viewed as an irritation by some. ``People are becoming aware of the annoyance factor,'' acknowledged Grant. Several exclusive clubs demand that their patrons and guests check their telephones at the door."	" A woman who pleaded guilty to shooting her former psychologist and two members of his family was sentenced to life in prison and ordered to pay her victims $10,000. ``You I believe are a dangerous person who should be locked up . .. for as long as you remain a threat,'' Superior Court Judge David A. Horowitz told Kimberly A. Gracyalny in sentencing her Tuesday. She will be eligible for parole in 10 to 11 years, said Deputy District Attorney Sharon Matsumoto. Ms. Gracyalny wounded neuropsychology specialist David Fox, his wife and daughter Dec. 20 as they returned to their home in the Fairfax area about 10 miles west of downtown Los Angeles. She hid in the Fox family's front yard and opened fire with a handgun, chasing them around the house to the back yard before the couple was able to subdue her, authorities said. During the attack, Fox, 34, was shot in the arm, his wife Deborah, 31, was shot in both legs and their 6-year-old daughter was shot in the left leg. The couple's three sons, ages 9, 11 and 18 months, were uninjured. Fox asked that Ms. Gracyalny be given the maximum sentence. ``My wife has five bullet holes in her leg,'' Fox told the judge. His 7-year-old daughter has a bullet lodged in her leg which cannot be removed, and he has suffered nerve damage to one hand, he said. ``The situation that my family and I have endured has gone beyond that of vandalism and harassment. It can only be compared to being held hostage in your own home,'' he said. Fox's eldest son, Abraham, 11, also asked that Ms. Gracyalny receive the maximum term. ``We have been afraid to play in our own yard due to the presence of Miss Gracyalny. We have also been afraid to walk to our schools and synagogue,'' he said. Fox treated Ms. Gracyalny between November 1982 and March 1983 for an undisclosed problem. The patient began harassing the therapist soon afterward, according to court records."	" The Supreme Court today let stand a $3.5 million punitive-damages award won by a San Diego gas station operator against Atlantic Richfield Co. The justices, without comment, refused to hear arguments that the award, believed to be the second largest of its kind ever upheld in California courts, is unconstitutionally excessive. John V. Nielsen had operated an ARCO station as an independent dealer for 12 years before agreeing to convert his service station to a mini-market and self-service station in 1979. His lawsuit charged ARCO with fraudulently misrepresenting facts in connection with the conversion of his station. A state court jury awarded Nielsen $525,788 in compensatory damages _ $79,061 in out-of-pocket losses, $396,727 in lost anticipated profits and $50,000 for emotional distress. The jury also awarded him $3.5 million in punitive damages against ARCO. A state appeals court upheld the award except for the emotional-distress damages, and the California Supreme Court refused to hear ARCO's appeal. In the appeal acted on today, lawyers for ARCO argued that the huge punitive-damages award _ seven times the compensatory-damages award _ violates the Eighth Amendment's ban on ``excessive fines.'' No court has ever applied that constitutional principle to non-criminal cases. The Supreme Court in May passed up deciding in a Mississippi case whether the constitutional ban on ``excessive fines'' can be applied to personal-injury lawsuits. Some state legislatures, reacting to soaring insurance rates, in recent years have imposed ceilings on how much money can be recovered in personal-injury lawsuits. Lawyers for ARCO urged the justices to ``send a clear signal that the state courts must stop these gargantuan awards.'' But lawyers for Nielsen argued that the ARCO appeal should not be granted because the oil company's lawyers had not raised the ``excessive fines'' argument in state courts. The justices refused to address the punitive-damages issue in the Mississippi case decided earlier this month after noting that it had not been raised in state courts. ARCO's appeal did not challenge the $475,000 compensatory-damages award won by Nielsen. The case is Atlantic Richfield vs. Nielsen, 87-1196."	" Armenia's Communist Party chief has threatened to quit the Soviet Politburo unless President Mikhail S. Gorbachev can restore order in the disputed region of Nagorno-Karabakh, news reports said Wednesday. Meanwhile, the Armenian parliament passed a resolution complaining that citizens of the predominantly Armenian territory located inside the neighboring republic of Azerbaijan are having their rights trampled upon, the Tass news agency reported. ``The Armenian population of Nagorno-Karabakh continues to be subject to terror on the part of Azerbaijani authorities, assisted by units of the Soviet army and Interior Ministry troops,'' Tass quoted the resolution as saying. A state of emergency is in effect in the mountainous region, part of Azerbaijan since 1923. Ethnic battles between residents of the two Caucasus republics over who should control the area have left more than 200 people dead the past two years. Vladimir Movsisyan, the Communist Party leader of Armenia, said in an appeal published in the republic's newspapers Wednesday that indifference and indecision on the part of the Soviet leadership have given Azerbaijan's leaders ``a free hand to pursue an anti-Armenian policy,'' according to the independent Interfax news service. It quoted him as saying misinformation circulated about Armenians' ``aggressive activity'' in Azerbaijan has put the two republics on the verge of war. Movsisyan, who as the republic's Communist Party leader is a member of the Soviet Politburo, threatened to resign unless the Nagorno-Karabakh issue is solved as soon as possible so that Armenian lives in the region are protected, Tass and Interfax reported. The president of Azerbaijan, Ayaz Mutalibov, also has accused the Soviet authorities of inaction in the dispute, and he has issued a different kind of threat _ that his republic may secede from the Soviet Union if the Kremlin does not act to ``normalize the situation'' in Nagorno-Karabakh. Mutalibov made the threat in an interview published Tuesday in the newspaper Sovietskaya Rossiya. Movsisyan said a natural gas pipeline to Yerevan, Armenia's capital, has been shut off, and freight trains have stopped arriving in the city of Idzhevan, costing the republic tens of millions of rubles. In addition, Azerbaijani authorities are forcing Armenians to leave their homes in Nagorno-Karabakh, in order to change the demography of the region, the Armenian parliament's resolution was quoted by Tass as saying. The parliament urged that Interior Ministry and Soviet army troops be deployed immediately along the borders of Nagorno-Karabakh and adjacent areas to restore Soviet authority and self-government in the area, Tass reported. Last week, the Armenian parliament banned the Armenian National Army, created last winter as a vigilante group to protect the mostly Christian population of Armenia from the mostly Moslem population of Azerbaijan. Lawmakers acted after the militant nationalist group was blamed for the shooting deaths of a member of parliament and another man. Gorbachev has demanded that militants in the republic disarm and disband paramilitary groups, but Armenian leaders say they can police their own population."	" Thousands of people went on strike in the capital of Armenia, apparently unhappy over the Armenian leadership's presentation of an ethnic dispute at the national Communist Party conference, a newspaper said Tuesday. The Soviet government daily Izvestia said the strike began Monday, one day after ``many thousands'' of people met in the Theater Square of Yerevan, the capital of the southern republic. Most flights in and out of Yerevan were canceled, it said. In a Tuesday edition, Izvestia said: ``Like yesterday a series of the city's industrial concerns aren't working, or are working with less than a full work force.'' It said food stores and industries, as well as restaurants and medical services had been working Monday. The newspaper said farm work was going on in Stepanakert, the largest city of the disputed Nagorno-Karabakh region, but that many other industries and institutions there also were shut down. Nagorno-Karabakh is at the center of a territorial dispute between Armenia and the neighboring republic of Azerbaijan. Nagorno-Karabakh is part of Azerbaijan, but the mountain enclave's predominantly Armenian population has been agitating since February to be annexed to Armenia. Armenia supports the demand. Azerbaijan is against it. At least 32 people were killed in riots over annexation which broke out in Sumgait, Azerbaijan, at the end of February. Izvestia said the thousands of people who gathered on the Yerevan city square Sunday listened to a television broadcast by delegates to the four-day party conference in Moscow, which closed last Friday. Armenian party leader Suren Arutyunyan said in remarks broadcast on Soviet TV during the conference that authorities could not normalize the situation in Armenia, where large demonstrations frequently have occurred in support of Nagorno-Karabakh's demand. He proposed that the conference take up unspecified amendments to the Soviet constitution. The disagreement between Armenia and Azerbaijan has sent the issue to national authorities, and the constitution specifies no way to solve the dispute. Delegates who spoke on television supported Arutyunyan's call for restraint and went directly to the square to talk to the crowd. But Izvestia said that after a ``stormy debate'' on the square, a committee was formed that called for a general strike after laying down a series of demands, including a quick, favorable resolution of the Nagorno-Karabakh issue. The committee demanded that the Soviet Supreme Court take over the trials of those charged in the Sumgait violence and demanded full information about the alleged poisoning of workers at a factory in the town of Masis. Izvestia provided no more information about the Masis incident, except to say an investigation was under way. The party conference called for greater attention to republics' calls for economic autonomy, but said authorities would not tolerate efforts to whip up ethnic tensions. Besides Azerbaijan and Armenia, delegates from the Baltic states of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia also brought up ethnic questions at the conference. About a dozen protesters demanding freedom for three Estonian political prisoners had gathered more than 6,000 signatures by Tuesday during a five-day demonstration in Tallinn, Estonia. ``We will continue the demonstration until they are freed or until the authorities give us an exact date for their release,'' Eve Parnaste said as she carried a poster at the protest outside the Estonian Supreme Court building. She said the three prisoners had been demanding publication of a secret 1939 pact between Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union that placed the Baltic republics of Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia under Moscow's control. All three were arrested this year, charged with spreading anti-Soviet propaganda or slandering the Soviet state. Miss Parnaste's poster said, ``KGB is an evil empire,'' using the initials for the Soviet secret police."	" A federal judge permanently banned racial discrimination in the city's public schools in his final order in a 16-year-old desegregation case. The order Thursday from U.S. District Judge W. Arthur Garrity Jr. barred ``creating, promoting or maintaining racial segregation in any school or other facility in the Boston school system.'' In a 1974 ruling on a lawsuit brought by black parents, Garrity found the city's public schools were segregated. He ordered them desegregated, and the resultant busing of students touched off years of turmoil. Garrity monitored the city's compliance with his order until 1987, when a federal appeals court ruled that the schools were desegregated and gave control over student assignment back to the School Committee. Garrity continued to monitor school administration and operations, however. He said Thursday's order would be his last. Perhaps the most controversial part of the four-page ruling was a decree that teacher layoffs must follow court-ordered racial guidelines rather than be based on seniority alone. That order, which means teachers and administrators must include 25 percent blacks and 10 percent other minorities, is to remain until ``seniority would be a racially neutral standard,'' he said. Achieving a fully desegregated faculty and staff ``will be an important milestone on the long road to affording equal educational opportunity to all students in Boston's public schools,'' Garrity wrote. More than 200 teachers are expected to be laid off _ nearly 800 have received layoff warnings _ before the next school year because of budget limitations. The Boston Teachers Union's contract calls for layoffs strictly on the basis of seniority. Union President Edward Doherty has said the union would appeal any ruling that continued minority quotas, which he said would mean many white teachers with 20 or more years of experience would lose their jobs. But lawyers on both sides of the desegregation case praised Garrity's final judgment. ``The order is consistent with affirmative action policies the School Committee has in place and clarifies some issues that need clarification concerning layoffs,'' said Henry Dinger, a lawyer for the School Committee. Robert Pressman, a lawyer for black plaintiffs, said the ruling shows that Garrity ``studied the papers carefully and manifests his continuing steadfastness in protecting the rights of the plaintiff class.''"
" Five people, including a village chief, were sentenced to death by firing squad for the ritual killing of a 38-year-old woman. Baffour Twene, 52, his wife and three co-defendants were convicted Monday of murdering Lamley Sampa on Feb. 23 and using parts of her body in a ritual ceremony. Mrs. Sampa was abducted in the northern region of Brong Ahafo. The details of the ritual were not described during the trial. Twene and the other defendants were tried before a regional court at Sunyani, 260 miles northwest of the capital of Accra. Courtroom spectators applauded the guilty verdict. Court chairman K.F. Otu-Essel called the killing barbaric and said such practices must end. Two weeks ago, four people, including a tribal chief, were sentenced to death by firing squad in a similar case in the western region of Sefwi Bekwai."	" And of course, as far as the _ how we make it better _ yes, we can do better on interdiction, but we've got to do a lot better on inter _ we've got to do a lot better on education. And we have to do _ be tougher on those who commit crimes. We've got to get after the users more. We have to change this whole culture. You know, I saw a movie, ``Crocodile Dundee.'' And I saw the cocaine scene treated with humor, as though this was a humorous little incident. And it's bad. Everybody ought to be in this thing _ entertainment industry, people involved in the schools, education. And it isn't a Republican or Democrat or a liberal problem, but we have got to instill values in these young people. And I have put forward a many-point drug program that includes what I would do as president of the United States in terms of doing better on interdiction, and in terms of doing better in the neighborhoods. But I think we're all in this together, and my plea to the American people is: values in the schools."	" A bomb hidden in a motor scooter exploded in a crowded vegetable market in Punjab state today, killing at least 31 people and wounding 70 others as Hindus celebrated a religious holiday, police said. The bombing, which police blamed on Sikh separatists, raised to 39 the number killed since Monday in the northern state. Sikhs campaigning for a separate nation have killed more than 500 people so far this year in Punjab, a rich northern farming state where they hold a slight majority over Hindus. Soon after the blast in Batala, 25 miles north of the Sikh holy city of Amritsar, Hindu mobs hurled stones at a police station 150 yards from the vegetable market, senior police superintendent S.K. Goel said. Goel was unsure whether any policemen were injured. The violence prompted officials to impose an indefinite curfew on the city, he said, adding that ``the situation is very tense.'' Most of those killed were Hindus and the wounded included both Sikhs and Hindus, said Sanjeev Gupta, another senior police official. Thirty-two of those wounded were in serious condition. Goel said the bomb exploded during a march by about 100,000 Hindus celebrating the birth of Rama, a heroic warrior-king. Rama is extolled in Hindu lore as an incarnation of Vishnu, a member of the supreme Hindu trinity of gods. Witnesses, contacted by telephone, said portions of bodies were hurled across the market, which was covered with blood-soaked pieces of vegetables. ``Some people were crying for help. Those who were lucky to survive ran away in panic. Many shops, scooters and one car were destroyed,'' said one witness who spoke on condition of anonymity. Earlier today, a bomb exploded on a bus in another town near Amritsar, killing the driver and one passenger, both Sikhs, senior police superintendent Anil Sharma said. Police blamed Sikh extremists for the blast near Taragarh, 17 miles northeast of Amritsar. Sikh Extremists initially targeted only Hindus in their campaign but now have also turned their guns on Sikhs who don't support the separatist cause. On Monday night, Sikh militants shot and killed four members of a Sikh family in another part of Punjab, police said. At Salghowal, 95 miles southeast of Amritsar, five or six Sikh gunmen burst into the farmhouse of a Sikh constable Monday night, killing the policeman, his parents and a younger brother, senior police superintendent Baramjit Singh said. Police also blamed Sikh extremists for an attack on a bus Monday night in Uttar Pradesh state, which is separated from Punjab by Haryana state, news agencies reported. United News of India said one police guard was killed and 11 passengers were wounded when five gunmen stopped the bus. But a second police guard killed one of the gunmen and the others fled, according to United News. Press Trust of India said police recovered a Chinese assault rifle bearing the inscription ``Khalistan Commando Force.'' Khalistan, which means ``Land of the Pure,'' is the name Sikh militants use for the independent Sikh nation they want to create in Punjab. The bus was halted while traveling between Bijnore and Muzaffarnagar, about 75 miles northeast of New Delhi and about 95 miles from the Punjab-Haryana state line. Most attacks by Sikh extremists have occurred in Punjab. Nationwide, Sikhs comprise only 2 percent of India's 880 million people, while Hindus account for 82 percent. The militants say members of the Sikh faith, which has roots in both Islam and Hinduism, are discriminated against politically and culturally by the Hindu majority."	" He performed in places like Madison Square Garden more times than Frank Sinatra, Jack Dempsey and lots of other big names. But after 11,697 shows, animal trainer Gunther Gebel-Williams performs his last death-defying act Sunday with the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus. ``Everybody asks me, `Why now?''' he said in the thick German accent he hasn't lost since he came to the United States 22 years ago. ``I want to step down when I am really good. I don't want to be like Ali, Sugar Ray, `Another fight, another fight.' '' A U.S. citizen since 1979, he calls himself ``German-engineered but a proud American'' and often sports a cowboy hat and a Western-style shirt. Though he's 56, Gebel-Williams remains enviably trim, 141 pounds with a ruddy complexion and his trademark sweep of blond hair. He announced two years ago that he would retire from ``The Greatest Show on Earth'' at the end of the 1990 season. He plans to settle at his winter home in Venice, Fla., with his 20 Bengal and Siberian tigers. After 42 years on the road, he said, training 20 tigers is getting a little riskier because he has lost some of his quickness and his eyesight is not what it used to be. And glasses wouldn't look so hot with his skin-hugging tights and sequined boleros, he joked. ``When you have 20 tigers, it's not easy to act like nothing can happen,'' he said. ``I've been like their father, their brother. I've been in charge always. But when one tiger is hurt, they always blame me.'' His domination in the ring comes from a soft-spoken training method based on mutual respect that separates him from his chair-and whip-wielding predecessors like Clyde Beatty and Mabel Stark, who taught animals to fear them. Gebel-Williams strokes his elephants' trunks, pats the tigers and mumbles commands in German, Indian or English. He welcomes animal rights advocates to attend his training sessions. ``That's the difference between me and everybody else,'' he said. ``I did everything with open doors. ``In 21 years never did somebody say I treated an animal wrong.'' Gebel-Williams began his career when he joined Circus Williams in Germany as an usher at 12. He became so much a part of the Williams family, who had hired his mother as a seamstress, that he added their name to his. By the 1960s, he was well-known as one of Europe's top animal trainers. In 1968, he caught the eye of Irvin Feld, owner and producer of Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus, who bought the entire Circus Williams to get their star to come to America. Now Gebel-Williams will yield the ring to his 20-year-old son, Mark. But he won't yield the tigers because he's afraid they won't transfer their devotion to his son. Mark's act will include the African and Indian elephants, white Lippizaner horses, zebras and camels. ``I think it's time for Mark. I have to step back,'' said Gebel-Williams, adding that he'll continue to work with the animals behind the scenes. Gebel-Williams said he didn't plan anything special for his last show, explaining that a change in routine would confuse the animals. And he hopes no one calls for a speech. ``It'll be very tough, but as long as I don't have to talk I can get through it,'' he said. After a lifetime with the circus, it would be impossible for him - and his tigers - to give it up entirely, he said. ``I believe some of my tigers will miss this. Maybe once in a while, I'll take them in the ring in Venice, turn on the music real loud, and let them pretend.''"	" Four-time winner Rick Swenson regained the lead Wednesday in the Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race, while a musher miles behind him was trying to scare off curious buffaloes. Lavon Barve and three-time champion Susan Butcher were minutes behind Swenson about a third of the way through the 1,158-mile race from Anchorage to Nome. ``There's a lot of strong teams this year,'' said Butcher, warning that there's still plenty of time for surprises. ``We've got a long way to go yet.'' Swenson led the race Monday topping the Alaska Range at 3,500-foot Rainy Pass, but was overtaken by defending champion Joe Runyan at Rohn on Tuesday. He had a cut on his face and a cracked plastic runner on his sled as he mushed away from this Athabascan Indian village of 110 people at Iditarod milepost 367. Swenson said the damage wouldn't stop him from reaching McGrath, the next checkpoint 48 miles from here, where he either would repair the runner or change sleds. Behind Swenson on the trail through Farewell Burn, eighth-place racer Tim Osmar of Clam Gulch fired shots into the air to clear the trail of several buffaloes. The Iditarod Trail is named for a tiny ghost town it passes through. The race commemorates the 1925 emergency delivery by relay dog teams of life-saving diphtheria serum to Nome. Butcher won the race in 1986, 1987 and 1988 and took second place last year. Swenson won in 1977, 1979, 1981 and 1982. He has finished in the top 10 every year since 1973, when the Iditarod was started."	" Here at a glance are the developments in the Persian Gulf crisis for the of October 14 to October 21:"	" A small earthquake rattled central Utah early today, but there were no reports of damage or injury. The quake struck at 6:44 a.m. and registered 4.6 on the Richter scale of ground motion, according to the U.S. Geological Survey's National Earthquake Information Service at Golden, Colo. It was an aftershock of an earlier temblor. Initial reports of the quake came from Price, East Carbon and Helper. The quake's epicenter was 34 miles south of Price. The Carbon County sheriff's office said it received numerous calls, and the Emery County sheriff's office also received a few calls from residents asking about the earthquake. The central Utah area was hit by three quakes on Sunday, the largest of which was 5.6 on the Richter scale. The temblors caused minor damage and were followed by about a dozen aftershocks on Monday. Seismologists had said aftershocks could continue through mid-week. The Richter scale is a measure of ground motion as recorded on seismographs. Every increase of one number means a tenfold increase in magnitude. Thus a reading of 4.5 reflects an earthquake 10 times stronger than one of 3.5. An earthquake of 3.5 on the Richter scale can cause slight damage in a populated area and a 4 can cause moderate damage in the local area."	" The government intensified its crackdown on apartheid opponents today by introducing a bill that would outlaw foreign funding of political activity. The legislation, expected to be adopted during Parliament's current session, could cripple the operations of anti-apartheid organizations and churches spared during last week's crackdown on major black opposition groups. Eighteen groups, including the largest anti-apartheid coalition and largest labor federation, were barred from political activity. The new legislation, called ``The Promotion of Orderly Politics Bill,'' would prohibit all organizations from receiving money from abroad for political purposes. Many anti-apartheid, human rights and religious groups receive the bulk of their funds from overseas. The bill would empower the justice minister to declare certain organizations ``restricted'' and to take control of foreign funds sent to them. Money which is deemed to be earmarked for undesirable political activities will ``either be returned to the foreign source or dealt with as determined by the minister,'' the bill says. No court challenge of the restrictions would be allowed. The funding restrictions could be applied to politically related activities of anti-apartheid church organizations, which have vowed to step up protests because of bans on other groups. The South African Council of Churches, which includes most major Protestant denominations and is deeply engaged in civil rights work, has received more than 90 percent of its funds from abroad in recent years. The Roman Catholic Church, which cooperates with the council of churches but receives funds separately, also relies heavily on overseas financing. The Rev. Smangiliso Mkhatshwa, secretary-general of the Southern African Catholic Bishops Conference, said the bill might prove difficult to enforce. ``If the church says supporting the families of detainees and paying legal fees is the work of love, the work of evangelism, it is dificult to see how the government can define for the church what it pastoral and what is political,'' he said. Another section of the bill sets a penalty of two years in jail or a $2,000 fine for anyone who ``says or does anything'' to foment hostility or violence between of different racial, cultural or religious groups. The penalties would apply to anyone who displays any banner, emblem or slogan deemed to convey such hostility, and also to anyone who attends a gathering where such items are displayed. Helen Suzman, veteran Parliament member of the anti-apartheid Progressive Federal Party, said she planned to demand a special debate today on the arrests of prominent clergymen who were protesting the government crackdown. About 25 church leaders, including Anglican Archbishop Desmond Tutu, and more than 100 other protesters were detained briefly Monday after riot policeman blocked them from marching to Parliament with a petition protesting the bans on opposition groups. One of the arrested churchmen, Roman Catholic Archbishop Stephen Naidoo, said in an interview today that he and his colleagues considered it their duty to continue challenging the government. ``The church has got to take a stand on the morality of the use of political power,'' he said. ``If it being used by a minority for the protection of the minority and the oppression of the majority, then the church has got to point this out.'' In another development, government officials warned the country's largest conglomerate, the Anglo American Corp., that they would not tolerate its announced plan to defy the Group Areas Act _ the law that establishes racially segregated living areas. Apartheid establishes a racially segregated society in which the nation's 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. The 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services. An executive in Anglo's property division, Graham Lindrop, recently described the act as a sham and said his company was prepared to negotiate leases directly with black tenants renting apartments in the ``white'' Johannesburg neighborhood of Hillbrow. Currently, most of the thousands of blacks living illegally in Hillbrow are forced to have their leases signed by a third party and are vulnerable to exploitation and threats from their landlords. The government has indicated it might allow Hillbrow and a few other areas to become integrated, but it says violations of the Group Areas Act will not be tolerated in the meantime. ``The act still stands until changes are approved by Parliament, Piet Badenhorst, a deputy Cabinet minister, said Monday. ``There will be prosecutions.'' Anglo American's stance was praised by foes of the Group Areas Act and denounced as civil disobedience by the extreme-right Conservative Party."	" A deactivated reactor from the nation's first nuclear power plant will be floated down the Ohio River in October on its way to a nuclear waste depository in Washington state, officials said. The reactor, to be removed from the deactivated Shippingport Atomic Power Station about 35 miles northwest of Pittsburgh, is expected to be unloaded in February at the Hanford nuclear reservation in south-central Washington. The barge will go down the Ohio to the Mississippi River, into the Gulf of Mexico, through the Panama Canal and up the Pacific Coast. Although the reactor has been emptied of its nuclear fuel, filled with concrete and enclosed in a neutron-shield tank, it's classified as nuclear waste since it has been contaminated by radiation. ``There has never been a plant this large decommissioned in this country,'' said David Ney, a nuclear engineer for the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources. ``It's probably the largest single shipment of nuclear waste in the nation's history.'' Mike Molloy, executive director of Disaster and Emergency Services in Kentucky, said Thursday that his agency hasn't received word of the shipment to Hanford. Mike McKernan, a technology transfer program manager for Westinghouse-Hanford Co., said the company would inform states along the route when the loading date approaches. Westinghouse-Hanford is the federal Department of Energy's technical support contractor for Shippingport. The concrete-filled reactor and its enclosing shield, McKernan said, together about 1,000 tons and measures about 45 feet high and 18 feet across. ``You can stand on it all day long and you wouldn't come in contact with more radiation than if you were standing out in the sun,'' McKernan said. The plant, commissioned in 1957, was the nation's first commercial nuclear power plant. The federal Department of Energy and Duquesne Light, the Pittsburgh-based power company, operated the plant as a demonstration project. They began taking the plant out of service four years ago. By June, the nuclear core was removed and the middle of the reactor, which served as a heat source for water that was converted to steam, was filled with concrete. The Department of Energy is charged with disposing of the reactor and converting the property, owned by Duquesne Light, to ``a perfectly usable condition,'' McKernan said. Pennsylvania officials are monitoring the process."	" A woman who once claimed she was David Letterman's wife was charged Monday with breaking into the talk-show host's home for a sixth time _ two days after her release from prison for an earlier break-in. Margaret Ray, 37, of Crawford, Colo., was arrested at 12:46 a.m. Monday and charged with first-degree trespassing when she was found near the tennis court on Letterman's property, said police Sgt. Nick Warren. Letterman called to report seeing her in the hallway of his home, Warren said. Warren said Ray had also been there the day before. Letterman had called Sunday to report a broken window, and when police went to investigate, they found her in the house, escorted her off the property and warned her not to come back. Ray was held overnight on $1,000 bond and taken to Norwalk Superior Court on Monday afternoon, where a psychiatric evaluation was ordered, said a spokeswoman in the public defender's office. Ray was taken to the Niantic State Prison for women and is due back in court April 4. It was Ray's sixth arrest in two years for bothering the host of NBC's ``Late Night with David Letterman.'' She was released last Friday from the Niantic prison, where she had served seven months of a nine-month sentence for trespassing at his home last August, said William Flower, a Department of Correction spokesman. An NBC publicist, Rosemary Keenan, said Letterman had no comment on the arrest. Ray, who last year described Letterman as the ``dominant figure in my life,'' was first arrested in May 1988, when she was stopped driving his Porsche near the Lincoln Tunnel in New York City. She identified herself as Mrs. Letterman and her son as David Jr. when she was unable to pay the $3 toll. Authorities said she took the car after breaking into his house and setting up housekeeping. Letterman initially declined to press charges, but she was charged with trespassing when she returned a second time. Ray was arrested again on Feb. 24, 1989, and four days later when she was found again on the property. She pleaded guilty in June and was sentenced to three years' probation, to be served in Colorado. But police nabbed her a fifth time on Aug. 24. The following day, she was sentenced to nine months in Niantic for violating her probation."	" The dollar surged against the Japanese yen Monday, and stock prices were sharply lower due to concern over higher oil prices and the possibility of a U.S. interest rate increase. At the end of trading, the dollar was quoted at 122.00 yen, up 0.85 yen from Friday's close of 121.15 yen. It opened higher at 121.60 yen and moved between 121.58 yen and 122.00 yen throughout the day. On the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Nikkei Stock Average of 225 selected issues, a 43.06-point loser during Saturday's half-day session, fell another 380.27 points or 1.3 percent to close at 28,983.32 points. A dealer at the Bank of Tokyo said the dollar ``was being bought in expectation that U.S. monetary authorities may (raise) prime lending rates and the nation's discount rate,'' the rate the Federal Reserve Board charges on loans to commercial banks. Meanwhile, Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita told reporters that Japan's central bank was closely watching for a possible move by the Federal Reserve, Kyodo News Service said. The dollar's strength paralleled the firmness of the British pound despite an increase in British interest rates after news last week of London's wider-than-expected current account deficit, the dealer said. The firmer dollar, expectations of a move by the Federal Reserve and higher oil prices encouraged investors to take profits from the recent rally on the Tokyo stock market, pushing prices lower, analysts said. Volume during morning trading was a relatively heavy 750 million shares, with most activity in heavy industrials like Kawasaki Heavy Industries, said Nick Ganner of Citicorp Scrimgeour Vickers International Ltd. Steels and heavy industrials were mixed, while the broader market was weaker. Fisheries were helped by press reports over the weekend that said the Soviet Union's state-owned fish processing company and Taiyo Fishery have reached an agreement to set up a joint venture on the Soviet island of Sakhalin to process catches from Japanese and Soviet vessels."	" Authorities are extending mandatory birth control to the far northwest's ethnic minorities, but they will be allowed more children than majority Hans, an official report said Sunday. As of July 1, minority couples in cities of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region will be limited to two children, and those in rural areas will be permitted three, the Xinhua News Agency said. Minority ethnic groups in Xinjiang total 8.6 million, or more than 61 percent of the population, the report said. Most Hans or ethnic Chinese, who make up more than 90 percent of China's 1 billion people, are limited to one child with the country struggling to feed and educate its spiraling population. However, the policy has been more relaxed toward China's 56 ethnic minority groups. The different standard toward minorities has been designed in part to win their loyalty to the Han-controlled government and allay their fears of being overwhelmed by ethnic Chinese."	" NBC's Jane Pauley, safely away from the woes and slipping ratings of the ``Today'' show she once co-hosted, starts life anew in prime time Tuesday with an appropriately entitled special: ``Changes.'' Her own changes include anchoring a prime-time news series that NBC once said might start this summer. However, it has no executive producer yet and may not arrive until fall or even January, she says. But she doesn't consider this the NBC News version of ``Waiting for Godot.'' ``I think it's very sensible,'' Pauley says of the delay. In her view, ``Corporations don't normally behave sensibly if there is some pressure to put something on the air. But this strikes me as a very rational way to approach a weekly series, and I'm very pleased with that.'' On Saturday, Pauley, who also has been filling in for Tom Brokaw on the ``NBC Nightly News,'' leaves for East Germany to start another documentary on sports there. A few more documentaries lie ahead after that. Tuesday's special is about three people and one couple whose lives are in transition. Work on the first story, about Frank Morgan, a 56-year-old acclaimed jazz saxophonist who spent much of his life in prison, began in December. That was the month that Pauley, her contract extended to 1992, bid adieu to 13 years of predawn wakeups for ``Today.'' She had told its audience in October she was leaving and got a hug then from her successor, Deborah Norville. But since January, ``Today'' hasn't exactly been hugged by viewers, even though Pauley took pains in October to assure them she wasn't at odds with Norville or co-host Bryant Gumbel, whom she called her friends. Although NBC executives say they have no research to indicate it, ``Today'' likely was hurt and ABC's ``Good Morning America'' helped by the turmoil preceding Pauley's decision to leave. Those off-camera troubles last year included the leak of Gumbel's caustic memo criticizing staffers, notably weatherman Willard Scott, and the decision of NBC executives, including ``Today'' vice president Dick Ebersol, to replace veteran ``Today'' news anchor John Palmer with Norville. Although NBC officials have said they expected a dip in ``Today'' ratings when Norville moved up from news anchor to succeed Pauley in January, the dip now is in its third month. ABC's ``Good Morning America'' easily won the important February ratings ``sweeps,'' the results used by TV stations to set their advertising rates. It averaged a 4.5 rating, which was good news for ABC affiliates. No so for NBC affiliates. ``Today,'' according to NBC's estimate, had a 3.65 average in the sweeps _ well below the 4.6 it had in February 1989 when it won the reveille ratings race. Each ratings point now represents 921,000 homes. Pauley, who last year kept a stiff upper lip and never publicly complained about the behind-camera woes at ``Today,'' is sympathetic to its current ratings problems. ``Well, I've been there before,'' she says, harking back to a time when she co-hosted ``Today'' with Brokaw and the Nielsen verdict was that ``Good Morning America,'' then hosted by David Hartman, had become No. 1. ``It was almost a relief when it finally happened,'' she says. ``Because from that moment on, we were able to scramble and get our act together and come back.'' She thinks the same thing will happen again, and that those in charge of ``Today,'' including new executive producer Tom Capra, will ``be able to put together something that comes on pretty strong.'' Pauley laughed uproariously when asked about an upcoming report in the National Enquirer confiding that NBC, on bended knee, had begged her to return to ``Today'' and that she has agreed to interview guests on two of five shows each week, starting in April. ``Totally bogus,'' she said. Her own thoughts about the ``Today'' turmoil and its effect on the show's ratings? ``Obviously, I can't personalize it,'' she said. ``And yet, I think that an explanation is that there were `dislocations,' shall we say, on the `Today' show. ... And I think that bothers people, especially early in the morning. ``It's not just that `Jane is gone.' It's just that there was too much disruption. In the morning, you want, er, regularity.''"	" Stock prices eked out a small gain today as the market absorbed the news of increases in the prime lending rate. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials rose 4.98 to 2,109.35 by 3 p.m. on Wall Street. Gainers slightly outnumbered losers in the overall count of New York Stock Exchange-listed issues, with 708 up, 663 down and 545 unchanged. Many large banks across the country raised their prime lending rates today from 9 to 9.5 percent. Analysts said, however, that those moves were seen largely as a response to recent increases in open-market money rates and did not necessarily have much predictive value for the future course of rates in general. Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, said Wednesday that further increases in rates were not inevitable. In any case, brokers said traders were reluctant to commit themselves extensively either way in advance of Friday's report from the Commerce Department on the nation's trade balance for May. Millipore climbed 1| to 38~ and Worthington Industries, traded in the over-the-counter market, gained 1[ to 24]. The two stocks were added to Standard & Poor's 500-stock composite index, prompting buying by index funds set up to duplicate the performance of the 500. Motorola fell 1} to 50{. The company reported second-quarter earnings of 93 cents a share, up from 62 cents in the comparable period last year but below what some Wall Streeters had been looking for. The NYSE's composite index of all its listed common stocks rose .21 to 152.48. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index was up .19 at 307.85. Volume on the Big Board came to 147.41 million shares with an hour to go."	" Five young adults exploring a storm drain were found alive after being washed away by runoff from a thunderstorm Thursday night, authorities said. The five, who were among eight people 18 to 25 years old who were exploring the drain, were located about 350 yards inside the drain about 11:30 p.m., said Fire Department spokesman Brad Stewart. ``They're all alive,'' Stewart said. One of the eight, John Shaffer of Charleston, said he and two friends were able to escape the drain. ``We got washed down the tube,'' said Shaffer, 21. ``We got a quarter of the way down and the water got so high. We tried to get out and we got washed out. ``We were just exploring there,'' he said. ``It wasn't raining when we went in, but then the water came in.'' The storm dumped up to 1{ inches of rain in a two-hour period in the area, the National Weather Service said."	" A tanker carrying 375,000 gallons of fuel oil ran aground today in the Delaware River but was refloated a few hours later without any apparent leaks, authorities said. The Norwegian tanker Manhattan Princess, operated by Ahlers Shipping of Belgium, grounded on a muddy bottom on the New Jersey side of the river at 12:45 a.m. today, said Coast Guard Lt. Pete Hoffman. Coast Guard Lt. Pete Hoffman said two tugboats pulling on the tanker got it off the bottom with little trouble after high tide arrived about 9:15 a.m. Investigators found no leakage or ship damage, he said. The ship, drawing 37 feet of water, was en route to the Hess terminal in Pennsauken, N.J., when it wandered out of the 40-foot deep channel. An investigator went along with the tanker to look into the cause of the grounding, Hoffman said. The ease of refloating the tanker was an indication that the tanker wasn't very hard aground on the soft, muddy bottom, Hoffman said, and it also suggested that there wouldn't be any damage to the hull."	" The stock market recorded some spotty losses today as investors studied new signs of sluggishness in business activity. The Commerce Department reported that the index of leading economic indicators was unchanged in June, rather than posting the small increase many analysts had been expecting. Separately, a monthly report from the National Association of Purchasing Management showed a marked dropoff in its measure of activity in the manufacturing sector of the economy. Those developments reinforced expectations in the financial world that business growth was likely to remain meager at best in the near future. In that environment, hopes have flagged on Wall Street for any impending improvement in corporate earnings. But at the same time, interest rates have moved lower of late. In today's credit market activity, prices of long-term government bonds rose about $5 for each $1,000 in face value, lowering their yields to the 8.35 percent-8.37 percent range."	" How does an adult reviewer approach a movie such as ``Big Top Pee-wee''? Very carefully. If you lambaste it as an entertainment aimed at the 5-year-old audience, you might be accurate. But you could also be accused of being a kill-joy and a fogy. If you try to compare it with the innocent comedy of the silent screen, you might also score some points. But you could also be accused of hunting for gold in a pile of dross. So here goes. ``Big Top Pee-wee'' is a clever piece of pure entertainment conceived by Paul Reubens and executed by Pee-wee Herman, who are the same person. Those who loved ``Pee-wee's Big Adventure'' will adore this one. The story begins with Pee-wee waking up on the most antiseptic farm in the world. Everything is sunny and bright, matching Pee-wee's personality. The animals sleep on mattresss and eat flapjacks at a picnic table. Pee-wee's greenhouse is a wonder. With his magic food supplements, he can grow anything. Even hot dogs. Pee-wee's constant companion is Vance, a pure-white pig. Vance talks. With a charity seldom seen in comedians, Pee-wee gives Vance most of the punchlines. But then, how are you going to upstage a talking pig? Every day Pee-wee is scheduled for a sandwich lunch with his heartthrob, the local schoolmarm (Penelope Ann Miller). For such a shy man, Pee-wee can be aggressive. He throws his body on top of the schoolmarm, who resists him because the schoolkids are watching. And taking snapshots. Then the circus comes to the farm. A new set of animals are roaming the acres, as well as exotic circus people, such as the Italian aerialist (Valeria Golino), with whom Pee-wee falls in love. The townspeople object to having the circus in their midst, providing a modicum of conflict to the script. Centerstage at all times is Pee-wee Herman, a man with a squeaky voice, tight suit and white socks. He is, in the end, an endearing character, guileless yet savvy. He wears well, despite the inane circumstances in which he finds himself. Kris Kristofferson as the circus boss lends strength, though his three-inch wife (Susan Tyrell) stretches fantasy too far. Randal Kleiser directed in a straightforward fashion. Only one sequence is truly hilarious, and that is borrowed from Alfred Hitchcock. When Pee-wee finally makes love with the aerialist, we see a train entering a tunnel (``North by Northwest'') and skyrockets exploding (``To Catch a Thief''). ``Big Top Pee-wee'' was produced by Reubens and Debra Hill, and written by him and George McGrath. The rating is PG, perhaps for sexual innuendo. Running time: 87 minutes."	" Alan Paton, the country's best known author, was recovering today from surgery for an undisclosed ailment, a press report said. Paton, whose 1948 novel ``Cry, The Beloved Country'' drew a compelling picture of South Africa's apartheid system of racial segregation, was in ``fairly serious condition'' after Tuesday's operation, according to an unidentified heart surgeon quoted by the South African Press Association. A spokeswoman at St. Augustine's Hospital in Durban said today that Paton was in stable condition. The 85-year-old novelist underwent surgery after being admitted to the Durban hospital Monday, the news agency said. Paton's ``Cry, The Beloved Country'' is the second best-selling book ever in South Africa after the Bible. Paton worked in anti-apartheid politics for many years with the United Party and still contributes political commentary to South African newspapers. By law and custom, apartheid establishes a racially segregated society in which the 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. The 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services."	" Ignore the wheelchair and arthritis. Her 80 years weigh lightly upon the mind and wit of M.F.K. Fisher, whose gifts to the world of food and literature are still mounting. But shed a tear for the grand dame of gastronomy: Mary Frances Kennedy Fisher denies herself the pleasure she gives her army of admirers in the 17 books and scores of magazine pieces that for 50 years set a lean and spicy standard few can match. ``I never read anything I've written,'' she snapped. ``I don't care to go back. I never read a word of print about me or by me.'' She wouldn't argue with going back to being able to use her hands for typing. Fate has ruled that she must dictate into a tape recorder. There's no question of her not doing it. Writing is as important to her as air. ``I am compulsive about it,'' admitted the Michigan-born author, who wrote such tasty morsels as ``How to Cook a Wolf,'' ``The Gastronomical Me,'' ``Consider the Oyster'' and her pungent ``Alphabet for Gourmets.'' Chafing among cushions in her little wine-country house, she added, ``But it's like pulling teeth. It's just awful. I can't dictate to a person so I dictate secretly. I don't make many mistakes, you know. It's my newspaper training. ... I don't have any errors once I get it down on paper, thank God.'' In 1937, the world's food writers discovered a tough new kid on the block when they eyed this paragraph leaping from the pages of ``Serve It Forth,'' Mary Frances' first book: ``The quails are an artful lure to the most refined of palates, and the rabbit stew, steaming, aromatic, is made just as tempting with an onion or two, pepper freshly ground, a little bacon and a dash of cheap, pure wine.'' A somewhat less literate reporter observed, ``It's a shame you don't get to read your good stuff like that.'' She was not impressed. Others are. It was once said of her crisp prose: ``She writes about food as others do about love, but rather better. ... Fisher writes not as a specialist but as a whole human being, spiky with prejudices, charming, short-tempered, well-traveled and cosmopolitan. ... She is a person, not a gourmet masked as a writer. Her passion comes from inside her.'' That was 35 years ago. Except for such indignities as two hip replacements, a corneal implant and the arthritis, nothing has changed, and she remembers everything between times _ three husbands, magazine pieces, the books that ``never made me any money,'' the travels in Europe. Of all her mates, said Mary Frances, ``my real husband was Jimmy Parrish (Dillwyn Parrish).'' They lived in a stone house surrounded by a vineyard and garden in Vevey, Switzerland. It was there, she said, that she learned from her Italian Swiss neighbors to cook vegetables in their own juices ``with sweet butter or thick olive oil to encourage them a little; tomatoes and onions and sweet peppers and all the summer things.'' She credits her start in food-writing on an episode during prohibition when she was living in Whittier, Calif., and her newspaperman father, Rex Kennedy, was teaching at a nearby college. She was working in a postcard shop. One afternoon she had a half-day off and decided to go the public library, where she found an Elizabethan cookbook on a table. ``It smelled so good ... the binding. I started writing,'' she said. She showed her writing to Alfred Fisher, the man who became her first husband. She had just turned 21 when they married, and 11 days later they set off to France and three years in Dijon, where he got his doctorate and she earned a degree at the University of Dijon. Back in the states, her writing started making the rounds. At 26, she sold her first magazine story, ``The Standing and the Waiting,'' and it conjured visions, full of verbs and wide swaths of color. The most scholarly of her work is her translation of legendary gastronomer Jean Anthelme Brillat-Savarin's ``The Physiology of Taste,'' her favorite work. Smoothing her red polka-dot dress, she peered out the window of the small, busy house she has lived in for 18 years, craning to see who was coming to visit her next. They come all day long, for a few moments in her ``youthful'' presence. They come professionally or as friends, for interviews, a publisher's conference, a chat, advice or perhaps to drop off a particularly nice piece of cheese or share a plateful of the chincoteague oysters she loves so much. She calls her visitors ``strays and wayfarers.'' They sit with her near a large picture window in her Sonoma County house on the edge of the old Bouverie Ranch, in Jack London country. But in her eighth decade, Mary Frances is not overwhelmed with the way things have gone with the world. ``We're suicidal,'' declared the mother of two daughters. ``Our doom is sealed. I take a very dim view of us as a human race, the only one that kills itself and everything around it. ... We've poisoned the earth and the land and the water. What else is there to poison? ... I don't have any hope for us at all.'' We looked out on her green meadow, rolling to the trees, peaceful, and the harsh pronouncement seemed a long way away."	" After six weeks of searching for 13{ tons of stolen coffee, this was the break authorities were looking for. A police officer became suspicious of a trailer that had been parked along a freeway for nearly two weeks in this San Bernardino County city and ran the license plate through a computer. The computer found nothing wrong, but the notion that something wasn't quite right kept percolating in Officer Tim Lane's police mind. Finally, on Saturday, he ran the trailer's vehicle identification number, and the case of the missing Folgers was cracked. The computer showed the refrigerated trailer was stolen last April in North Hollywood. Inside, officers found about 9,000 three-pound packages of Folgers, which was unloaded Monday. Capt. George Westcott said police traced the lot numbers of the coffee and determined it had been stolen May 2 in San Francisco. It was not immediately known why the coffee was abandoned."	" Nevada's Supreme Court, which banned use of police decoys who pose as drunks with cash hanging from their pockets, says it's OK if the decoy is alert, well-dressed and more of a ``logical target'' for thieves. The high court Thursday rejected an appeal from Vincent DePasquale, convicted in Las Vegas of larceny after a police decoy operation in 1983. A plainclothes policewoman was used as a decoy, carrying a shoulder bag in which a fake $100 bill was exposed, a zipper pulled tight against the money. DePasquale claimed entrapment. The Supreme Court said it has ruled against use of decoys when they pose as anyone who is helpless, drunk or feigning unconsciousness with money exposed temptingly from pockets. That ``degree of vulnerability'' suggested entrapment, or inducing someone to commit a crime he might not otherwise commit, the court said. In the DePasquale case, however, ``the exposed valuables were presented in a realistic situation, an alert and well-dressed woman walking on the open sidewalks in the casino area,'' the court said. ``The fact that the money was exposed simply presented a generally identified social predator with a logical target,'' the court added. ``These facts suggest that DePasquale was predisposed to commit this crime.''"	" Thousands of Czechs joined U.S. veterans Saturday for a sun-kissed streetfest in the first celebration ever of the liberation of this beer-brewing city by American troops in World War II. Pubs were turned into imitations of Wild West saloons, and youths with American Army paraphernalia rode the streets on vintage Harley-Davidson motorcycles inherited from their parents. Up to 150,000 visitors were expected to descend on Pilsen, a city of 130,000, on Sunday, when President Vaclav Havel and U.S. Ambassador Shirley Temple Black were to preside over the close of the two-day celebration. Gen. George C. Patton's 3rd Army liberated Pilsen on May 6, 1945, just three days before World War II ended in Prague. By agreement with the Soviets, American troops came to a halt at the demarcation line cutting southwest through Czech territory, leaving the Red Army to conquer the Czechoslovak capital. ``Boy, everybody wanted to go on to Prague and get it over with,'' said Cpl. Ross Johnston, 75, an attorney from Zanesville, Ohio. ``But we had to stop here, wait for two weeks and then we were pulled out.'' The Communists barred any commemoration of the U.S. liberation of about 3,600 miles of Czechoslovak territory and marked May 5 as a day of liberation by Soviet troops. Six months after Czechoslovakia's peaceful revolution in December, however, the atmosphere in this grim industrial city had changed remarkably. American flags adorned the former bastions of Communist officials, and scores of U.S. veterans were in town for the celebration. Tens of thousands of people turned out Saturday morning to see the ceremonial inauguration of a monument to the 2nd Infantry Divison on Pilsen's downtown Republic Square. Those who lived long enough to see the return of Patton's men still remember the postwar atmosphere. ``It felt so right that our town was freed from the Nazis by a western army,'' Frantisek Kotva, a pensioner, mused over a mug of the city's famous beer. ``We all loved the GIs, but then we had to forget about them for a long time,'' he said, alluding to the four decades of Communist suppression that followed. Elsewhere in Czechoslovakia, the occasion was marked with quieter ceremonies. Ambassador Temple Black joined Jan Urban, the leader of the Civic Forum movement that led the revolution against the Communists, at the unveiling of a memorial to the U.S. Army in Vitejovice, about 70 miles southwest of Prague. A similar plaque was unveiled in the nearby town of Chodov. In Lipnik and Bevcou, crowds gathered to remember Martin Zeberski, a U.S. pilot killed there in August 1944. Havel and Temple Black will lead Sunday's festivities in Pilsen, which were to begin with a morning ceremony at the demarcation line and end with a ``country ball.'' ``I've been to several similar events, but this is much bigger than any of us expected,'' Johnston said. ``If the very president of the United States came here in person, he could not be shown more courtesy and respect than we were.''"	" Attorney General Edwin Meese's wife, Ursula, will undergo questioning shortly in the criminal investigation of her husband about her own $40,000-a-year job, say sources familiar with the case. The office of independent counsel James McKay is trying to determine whether longtime Meese friend E. Robert Wallach in effect helped supplement the Meeses' income by recommending Mrs. Meese for jobs, said sources familiar with the probe, speaking on condition of anonymity. Mrs. Meese has retained the same Washington law firm representing her husband, said James Rocap, one of Meese's lawyers. She will either make a federal grand jury appearance or be questioned by investigators from McKay's office. McKay said last week that his investigation of Meese, also encompassing an examination of the circumstances surrounding Mrs. Meese's job, would continue at least until the end of April. McKay last month subpoenaed records relating to Mrs. Meese's post with the Washington chapter of the Multiple Sclerosis Society, said a lawyer for the chapter, James Bierbower. A lawyer for Wallach, George Walker, has told The Washington Post that Wallach had suggested Mrs. Meese for a job with a local radio station owned by the Bender family of Washington. Mrs. Meese took the position with the MS Society instead. However, Bierbower said the Bender Foundation of Washington, controlled by the same family that owns the radio station, is contributing the $40,000 a year that constitutes Mrs. Meese's salary with the MS group. Calls to the Bender Foundation seeking its reasons for paying Mrs. Meese's salary were not returned. Mrs. Meese has been a volunteer for the MS Society since 1981 and for the past two years has been in charge of a program called Operation Job Match, matching MS victims with employers. Mrs. Meese also was questioned in an earlier independent counsel's investigation of Meese in 1984. In that investigation, independent counsel Jacob Stein probed Meese's failure to include in his financial disclosure statements a $15,000 loan by Edwin Thomas to Mrs. Meese. Thomas later became Meese's assistant counselor at the White House. The independent counsel found no connection between the loan and federal jobs obtained by Thomas, his wife and his son. In another development Monday, Justice Department sources said Meese will face an ethics investigation by his own department's Office of Professional Responsibility if McKay doesn't seek an indictment. Such an inquiry ultimately could lead to a recommendation to President Reagan that Meese be fired. Former Assistant Attorney General William Weld's files on the attorney general's dealings with Wallach were moved to OPR last Friday, the sources said. Material collected by Weld's criminal division last year led to McKay's criminal investigation of Meese. McKay said Friday he has insufficient evidence to date to warrant seeking an indictment of Meese in connection with his involvement with a $1 billion Iraqi oil pipeline touted by Wallach or his involvement with the regional Bell telephone companies at a time when he held $14,000 in Baby Bell stock. In December, McKay said he didn't have sufficient evidence at that time to warrant seeking an indictment of Meese in connection with his assistance to scandal-plagued Wedtech Corp. McKay said that if he decides not to seek a criminal indictment of Meese, the independent counsel's office ``will refer all of those matters for review and action by the appropriate administrative authorities,'' a reference to OPR. OPR's chief, Michael Shaheen, denied assertions by Justice Department sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, that his office had begun examining Meese's ties to longtime friend Wallach last year. That review was halted when McKay launched his criminal investigation of Meese last May 11, the sources said."	" James Earl Ray, who pleaded guilty to assassinating the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., says he was framed to cover up an FBI plot to kill the civil rights leader and wants the government to reopen his case. Ray, 60, was sentenced to serve 99 years for King's murder in Memphis, Tenn., on April 4, 1968. The Tennessee parole board has scheduled a January parole hearing for him, but Ray says he is not hopeful. ``I doubt very much they'll give me a parole,'' he said. ``I think the only way I'll get out of here is through a jury. If they wouldn't grant me a trial I don't see how they'll grant me a parole.'' Ray pleaded guilty on the day his trial was to begin on March 9, 1969, but recanted three days later and has not received a complete trial to prove his innocence. He alleges the FBI threatened to jail his father and brother if he didn't sign a confession. Ray's father was a fugitive from prison and his brother spent several years in jail. In an interview at Brushy State Prison in East Tennessee with talk show host Morton Downey Jr., Ray claimed he was set up in a plot to kill King, whose calls for economic justice for minorities and effective use of non-violent protest drew the wrath of then-FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover. He said the government has refused his requests to review the evidence against him, has never conducted ballistics tests on the alleged murder weapon and has suppressed witnesses and investigations that could have cleared him. ``Since they won't, they must be hiding something,'' Ray said of the FBI. The show is scheduled to be aired Nov. 28. King was in Memphis the day of his assassination to support a strike by city sanitation workers seeking higher pay. Ray was identified from fingerprints on a rifle found near the Lorraine Motel in Memphis where King was killed as he stood on a balcony. Hosea Williams, an aide to King present when he was shot, said during taping Monday of ``The Morton Downey Jr. Show '' that ``I've never believed Ray killed Dr. King.'' Williams said King was convinced that Hoover's FBI was plotting his death. He also said he was surprised to find days after the assassination that ``Ray had no political philosophy. He was just a two-bit redneck hustler.'' Many blacks have expressed anger that the Tennessee board has scheduled a January parole hearing for Ray. Under a 1985 law providing parole hearings for inmates held for 20 years, Ray became eligible for parole consideration this month. The law was designed to allow the state to relieve prison overcrowding. James M. Brown, chairman of the Tennessee Voters Council and a member of the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. State Holiday Committee, called Ray's parole hearing ``cruel, dangerous and shameful,'' and said he would ask Gov. Ned McWherter to call it off. He noted the hearing in January would coincide with the Jan. 16 holiday honoring King's birthday. But McWherter told reporters Monday that he will not interfere with the decision of the board, which by law is an independent state agency."	" A company that keeps tabs on the aircraft industry reports jet aircraft orders are booming as commercial airlines worldwide modernize their fleets with more fuel-efficient aircraft. The company, Forecast International, says more than 3,400 aircraft worth $114 billion are either on order or on option to order, most to be delivered over the next six years. In 15 years of tracking aircraft developments, ``I've never, never seen a replacement cycle like this,'' said company President Edward M. Nebinger. He said Tuesday airlines are ordering new planes because they can save 20 to 25 percent on fuel costs with newer models, with fuel being an airline company's largest operational expense. Nebinger also said the industry had weathered an era of cutthroat competition, prompted partly by the deregulation of the industry a decade ago, that has seen less-efficient carriers fold amid a series of mergers and consolidations. ``The survivors are economically stronger,'' he said. Newer models also reduce the risk of metal fatigue, which literally can cause a plane to fall apart. Nebinger recalled this year's Aloha Airlines incident, when the entire front section of the cabin roof flew off in flight, due to fatigue cracks. That plane had made 90,000 takeoffs and landings, he said. The Aloha Airlines incident and the recent crash of a 1973-vintage Boeing 727 jet in Dallas renewed questions about the reliability of aging aircraft, Nebinger said. His figures indicate the average age of a Boeing 707 is 20.3 years, while the average age of a Boeing 727 is 15.4 years. The average age of a McDonnell Douglas DC-8 is 21.4 years and the average age of a DC-10 is 12 years. Forecast International maintains computer data on aircraft inventories worldwide. Nebinger said jet planes are the last major items that the United States exports and his data provide encouraging news as the United States attempts to trim its trade deficit. U.S. manufacturers are expected to deliver 1,738 new aircraft, worth about $72.5 billion, through 1994. Of that, $25.4 billion is destined for American airline companies, while the remaining $47.1 billion will go to foreign customers, Nebinger said. But he also said European companies, specifically Airbus Industrie, are taking an ever-increasing bite of the market away from U.S. giants like Boeing and McDonnell Douglas, which 15 years ago claimed virtually the entire world market. He said Airbus Industrie was expected to deliver 852 aircraft through 1995, while other European producers will deliver about 575. Much of those will go to countries other than the United States, but about $12.8 billion will go to U.S. operators, he said. On balance, Nebinger said, ``the U.S. still emerges as a very strong winner in the import-export balance, with exports to Europe exceeding imports by $13.2 billion.'' The impact on the U.S. trade deficit, he said, ``cannot be overemphasized.'' Boeing has 1,275 aircraft either on order or option to order. McDonnell Douglas has 349. Airbus Industrie has 852, while Fokker, based in the Netherlands, has 257, and Embraer of Brazil has 208, according to Nebinger's numbers. To support the orders his company has tracked, new engines needed through 1994 will be worth $24.7 billion, Nebinger said, of which U.S. manufacturers will produce $15.6 billion, or 63 percent."	" Delegates of Mauritius stormed out of the final session of the Organization of African Unity summit Saturday and accused the OAU of hypocrisy for criticizing their nation's increased trade with South Africa. ``These self-righteous, hypocritical accusations are an insult to Mauritius,'' said Satoam Boolall, the island nation's chief representative at the summit. ``My government feels that it is being unfairly and unjustly singled out.'' Boolall, of Mauritius' Foreign Ministry, said Prime Minister Aneerood Jugnauth ordered the delegation to walk out of the session. Conference sources said the Comoros Islands and the Seychelles, two other Indian Ocean islands, also protested the summit's adoption of an OAU Liberation Committee report expressing embarrassment and concern at their growing trade ties with South Africa. Thirty heads of state attended the OAU's 25th anniversary celebrations and its 24th summit in Addis Ababa, the organization's headquarters. OAU Secretary-General Ide Oumarou of Niger said the final resolution criticized those African nations that do not border South Africa and whose economic relationship with the white-dominated government was ``voluntary and deliberate.'' He said the organization was not being hypocritical in not citing the countries whose geographical proximity to South African and colonial heritages have forced their economies to be integrated into that of South Africa. Black Africa does about $1 billion a year business with South Africa, most of it covert. The summit established a committee to investigate that. It also asked the OAU secretariat to report on the financial cost of opening a Washington D.C. office to back efforts encouraging passage of a U.S. bill supporting economic sanctions against South Africa. The OAU member countries repeated longstanding calls for the United States to use its influence with Pretoria to ensure the speedy implementation of U.N. Resolution 435, calling for a cease-fire and referendum in Namibia, which South Africa administers. The summit also said it would work toward convening a U.N. Security Concil meeting to ``examine the totality of racist South Africa's reprehensive policies and acts of state terrorism in South Africa, Namibia and the region.'' The OAU discussed the $12 million owed by 34 member states to the organization's fund for the support of liberation movements. A resolution urged that the members owing money, some of which have never contributed, to clear their debts within two years ``to enable national liberation movements to intensify the armed struggle in Namibia and South Africa.'' President Moussa Traore of Mali, newly-elected chairman of the OAU, told reporters the pan-African body will continue to pursue its call for a unified front of the African National Congress, the main guerrilla movement fighting white domination in South Africa, and the much smaller Pan Africanist Congress, which are fighting South Africa's government. Under South Africa's system of apartheid, the nation's 26 million blacks have no voice in national affairs. The 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate schools, districts and health services."	" Government and business leaders said today President Bush's decision to continue favorable trade status for Beijing is welcome news for this British colony that relies heavily on commerce with China. Trade and Industry Secretary John Chan called Bush's move Thursday ``very good news from Hong Kong's point of view.'' In a statement, he noted that the business community and government had engaged in intensive lobbying during the past few weeks to explain how termination of special trade status would harm Hong Kong, which will return to Chinese sovereignty in 1997. Seto Fai, honorary president of the Chinese Manufacturers' Association, said the U.S. decision will help prevent Hong Kong from sliding into economic recession. ``Hong Kong is already experiencing a slowing of economic growth and could not afford to stand a blow from the United States,'' he said. ``Now, we have at least another year to breathe.'' The news drew little response from the stock market, which had rallied sharply earlier in the week on expectation that Bush would renew China's most-favored-nation trade status. The blue-chip Hang Seng Index today rose 20 points in early trading before finishing the morning session virtually unchanged at 3,049. The market had gained 130 points in the preceding five sessions, largely on anticipation of the U.S. decision. Most-favored-nation status gives Chinese exports to the United States the lowest possible tariffs. Denial would send tariffs rising sharply on about $12 billion in annual imports from China of textiles, toys and other products. Much of the Chinese exports to the United States are produced in joint-venture factories set up by Hong Kong investors in southern China. About 70 percent of Chinese products sent to the U.S. market are shipped through Hong Kong, Seto said. ``Hong Kong nowadays shares an inseparable economic link with China. Any threat to sanction China economically would inevitably drag us into it,'' said Carson Chan, assistant director for the Federation of Hong Kong Industries. He said termination of the special trade status for China would have resulted in at least 20,000 Hong Kong people losing their jobs in industries such as trade, transportation and banking. Hong Kong's economy already is experiencing high inflation and sluggish growth, with the gross domestic product forecast to rise only 3 percent this year. Industrialists expressed confidence that the U.S. Congress will not reject Bush's decision, despite opposition by some lawmakers."	" A group of Washington lobbyists have formed the capital-based National Vintners Association to promote and represent in Congress the wine interests in the 43 producing states. The NVA, in addition to representing the approximately 1,300 wineries in this country, also is targeting for membership thousands more winegrape growers at the start of the production chain, according to association Executive Director Richard Feeney. The NVA ``is a national trade association based on Capitol Hill...because the wine industry faces serious threats from federal regulation, because NVA members need to have timely, accurate information from Washington,'' Feeney said. Feeney, a Congressional lobbyist and onetime director of the National Meat Association, said his direct connection with wine was from 1970-74, when he was partner in a wine importing business. Feeney said the association, only a few weeks old, had no intention of vying for supremacy with California's 54-year-old Wine Institute, which directly represents for 520 of the state's 770 wineries. Most other wine-producing states have no organization, said Feeney, contending, ``The fact remains that if a vintner in Virginia or Oregon wants to join a national organization, there ain't any.'' Feeney said he did not think many other wine-producing states had adequate liaison with Congress and federal agencies affecting the industry. Vintners are worried about what they see as a wave of prohibitionist feeling in America, expressed in new label laws, restaurant posting of toxicity warnings for pregnant women, new taxes, and a widespread anti-alcohol surge. One of the NVA's most ambitious programs will be to lobby Congress to change the way federal law regards winegrapes, said Feeney, who said lawmakers might be ready ``to look at wine differently.'' Unlike many other agricultural products, grapes grown for wine get no subsidy, and the end product is regarded an alcoholic beverage subject to regulation by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. Feeney said, ``the time has come for wine to take its place with other agricultural products'' and to share benefits enjoyed by ``commodities such as soybeans, beef, dairy products, catfish and pork.'' He said he wants wine looked upon as food, a desire that coincides with ongoing efforts of California's major vintners, principally Robert Mondavi, who is about to launch a privately financed pro-wine program."	" Jesse Jackson issued an emotional appeal today for supporters to back the Democratic ticket and told Michael Dukakis and Lloyd Bentsen that he will be keeping up the ``street heat'' to make sure they don't forget his constituents. ``It is in order and it is right to support this ticket because of our access to it and our relaionship with it,'' Jackson told several hundred delegates as Dukakis and Bentsen looked on. ``We have every reason to be hopeful, to be excited, to know that we are close to where we are going, a long way from where we started,'' Jackson said. ``And in our lifetime you and I will be in the White House.'' He introduced Dukakis as ``a man I've come to know, to respect ... a man I've come to ... love because of his own sensitivity to family,'' Jackson added: ``I bring to you a man I plan to watch up close ... when he becomes ... the next president of the United States _ Michael Dukakis.'' The group erupted in applause and shouts of ``Duke, Duke.'' ``We're going to need you, we want you, we can't win without you,'' Dukakis responded. Jackson issued a blistering attack on the Reagan record and called for Democratic unity. A progressive agenda will be won with ``a combination of street heat and leadership,'' he said. He promised Dukakis, ``There will be enough heat to cook our meat and enough heat for George Bush to get out of the kitchen.'' Jackson recalled that when Lyndon B. Johnson was added to the ticket in 1960, some civil rights activists were concered. But Johnson rose to the occasion, Jackson said. Turning to Bentsen, he said, ``In a real sense, your occasion is now... You ask us to trust you. All we can ask of anyone is that they not betray that trust.'' Jackson repeated that he wants neither a job nor a title with the Dukakis operation. ``I want to serve, free to serve at my own pace, free to serve, free to challenge,'' he said. He said he expects his own relationship with the ticket will influence some policies. ``What does it mean to me in practical terms?'' Jackson asked. ``The contras have lost a vote.'' Bentsen _ who has voted for aid to the Nicaraguan rebels _ and Dukakis politely joined the applause as delegates chanted, ``No contra aid.'' Jackson, who had been the last survivor in the Democratic field against Dukakis, had endorsed the ticket at Thursday night's closing session of the party's convention. At the end of the long road, Jackson said, ``I feel fantastic.'' But it was clear he would have to do some selling to whip up enthusiasn for the Dukakis-Bentsen ticket. Jesse Jackson embraced the Democratic ticket he had wanted to head and gave the Democrats the unity send-off they sought for victory in the November election. As he strode from the podium where he joined Democratic nominee Michael Dukakis on Thursday night, Jackson said, ``We have a good ticket and a good team. And if the unity that is expressed here tonight is sustained and expands, we will win and we will deserve to win.'' Asked his own feeling at the close of the convention, he said, ``I feel fantastic.'' With the dust hardly settled from his own presidential campaign, Jackson today was looking ahead to new political ventures. He called a meeting today of his 1,200 delegates to include them in his plans to campaign for the Dukakis ticket, raise money for his own political action committee and register voters. It appeared Thursday night that he would have to do some selling to whip up enthusiasm among some delegates for the team of Dukakis and Sen. Lloyd Bentsen of Texas. Signs reading ``No Contra aid'' printed up by members of the Vermont delegation were held up by several Jackson delegates around the hall. Dukakis opposes aid to the Nicaraguan Contra rebels, while Bentsen has voted for it in the past. ``He's against peace,'' said Vermont delegate Cindy Milstein who mentioned several pro-military stands by Bentsen. But Jackson officials circulated a statement from him to his delegates before the vice presidential vote, urging support of Bentsen. The brief statement said that while he disagrees with Dukakis and Bentsen on some issues, ``our interest converges in building a coalition to beat the Republicans this fall.'' Jackson's appearance in the hall later was clearly appreciated. At the mention of his name by Dukakis, a deafening cheer went up from both Jackson and Dukakis delegates. At first Jackson sat unnoticed in a VIP box with former President Jimmy Carter, an uncustomary role for Jackson, until Dukakis waved to him. Jackson stood, gave a thumbs up and the delegates erupted in emotion."
" The Reagan administration, contending that many Contra rebels inside Nicaragua are desperately short of food, will begin sending them cash at the rate of about $1 a day per rebel for food purchases, it was announced Friday. State Department spokeswoman Phyllis Oakley brushed aside complaints from House Speaker Jim Wright, D-Texas, that the rebels might use the money illegally to buy weapons. ``They already have weapons. What they need at this moment desperately is food, and we're confident that they will naturally use these small funds to provide for their basic survival,'' she said. An agreement signed between the Contras and Nicaragua's leftist Sandinista government on March 23 permits humanitarian aid for the rebels, but no shipments have been made thus far because of a dispute over how the assistance should be delivered, among other reasons. Meanwhile, many Contras inside Nicaragua were said to be suffering from an inadequate diet. As an interim measure, the administration about three weeks ago began arranging deliveries by truck and air drop of food to rebel camps in Honduras near the Nicaraguan border. Hundreds, perhaps thousands, of Contras have fled Nicaragua for Honduras in search of food in recent weeks. Officials from the Agency for International Development, in a preliminary discussion with reporters of the plan announced Friday, had said Monday that most of the aid will be in the form of Nicaraguan currency delivered by Contra couriers based in Honduras. Some food also will be delivered, but the emphasis will be on cash transfers because of limits on the amount of food that can be carried. AID was designated to manage the $48 million humanitarian aid program approved by Congress in late March, a week after the Contras and the Sandinistas reached a truce agreement that allows for such aid to the rebels. The secretary general of the Organization of American States, Joao Baena Soares, has criticized both deliveries of food to Contra camps in Honduras and the cash-for-food plan. Baena Soares, a member of a verification commission assigned to ensure compliance with the Contra-Sandinista agreement, has said that neither plan falls within the limits of what the two sides have approved. But an administration official said Wednesday that the other member of the commission, Nicaraguan Cardinal Miguel Obando y Bravo, has raised no objections to the cash-for-food plan. The administration has accused the Sandinista government of using delaying tactics during negotiations in a bid to starve the Contras into submission. But Nicaraguan Vice President Sergio Ramirez said Thursday his government is willing to allow immediate delivery of humanitarian supplies to rebels in Nicaragua. He denied that the government is trying to starve the Contras. ``We are in full disposition to accept that the Contra forces could receive humanitarian aid inside Nicaragua tomorrow, if possible,'' Ramirez told reporters after a 1{-hour meeting with Wright and other Democratic congressional leaders. Ramirez did not discuss his views on the cash-for-food plan. Wright has described the plan as a ``last resort'' because there are no guarantees the money won't be used to buy weapons. He also expressed concern that the cash might be used to buy weapons in violation of both the Contra-Sandinista agreement and the terms of the $48 million aid package. The package provides for food, clothing, shelter and medical supplies as well as treatment for children who are war victims. Money also was set aside to finance the work of the verification commission."	" Israeli-backed Christian militiamen shelled a U.N.-policed vilage in south Lebanon today, wounding an Irish peacekeeper, three Lebanese women and an 8-year-old boy. Timur Goksel, spokesman for the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon, said the Irishman was injured in the head when a 60mm mortar round crashed into one of the Irish battalion posts in Qabrikha, 18 miles east of Tyre. He declined to give the Irishman's name. Lebanese police later said four villagers, including three women and a boy, also were wounded in the bombardment. Police said the South Lebanon Army militia opened up on the Shiite Moslem village after a roadside bomb exploded in the village of Qantara, in Israel's self-designated securitu zone in south Lebanon. It as not clear whether anyone was hurt in the explosion. The 2,000-man militia patrols the 6-to-10-mile deep security zone jointly with Israeli troops. The buffer was established after Israel withdrew the bulk of its occupation force from south Lebanon in 1985, ending a three-year invasion."	" Sen. Dan Quayle is warning Republicans against overconfidence in the waning days of the presidential campaign, saying the GOP could end up like Thomas Dewey in 1948. Arriving here Tuesday night at the end of a long campaign day in Ohio, Kentucky and Indiana, Quayle said ``the polls have been all over the lot.'' ``We believe, in fact, we have a small but marginally insignificant lead,'' he told reporters. Two nationwide surveys released Tuesday night show the Republican ticket of George Bush and Quayle holding double-digit leads of 12 and 13 points in the final week before the election. Earlier, while campaigning for Indiana Lt. Gov. John Mutz, who is trying to succeed Robert Orr in Quayle's homestate of Indiana, the senator sought to deflect burgeoning speculation about whether his wife, Marilyn, might be appointed to fill his vacant Senate seat in the event of a Bush-Quayle victory next Tuesday. ``It's going to be Bob Orr's decision,'' Quayle said of talk within Republican Party circles in the state that Mrs. Quayle might be offered the vacant seat. During an interview last weekend on the syndicated program ``McLaughlin: One on One,'' Quayle's wife refused to flatly rule out such a possibility. ``I think it's a real honor for her to be considered,'' Quayle told reporters in Evansville. ``I'm not going to do anything to disrupt the discussion. ... Of course, we've got a family, and life is going to change a lot'' if the Bush-Quayle ticket is elected, he said. Quayle was appearing at a campaign rally today in this ``City on the Bluffs'' before traveling to Owensboro, Ky. He has appearances scheduled later in the week in Greenville and Spartanburg, S.C., and in Oklahoma and Alabama. The senator, who complained about last-minute scheduling changes dictated by the Bush campaign headquarters in Washington, seemed buoyed by two appearances in his homestate, one in Jeffersonville and the second in Evansville. Red, white and blue balloons sailed in front of a flag-waving, cheering crowd as the band struck up ``Back Home in Indiana.'' But when he arrived in Memphis in late evening, Quayle deflected questions which assumed a Republican Party victory at the polls. ``We believe this election could still go either way,'' he said. ``We're not taking anything for granted. That would be absolutely lethal.'' ``One way you can lose an election is to sit back, and relax, and we'll end up like Dewey did,'' Quayle said. He was referring to Thomas Dewey's upset loss to Democrat Harry Truman 40 years ago in an election that virtually all the experts had given to Dewey."	" GTE Corp. is cutting back in the expensive and competitive business of building telephone network switches by turning over 49 percent of its operation to American Telephone & Telegraph Co. GTE will own 51 percent of a joint venture with AT&T, then reduce its ownership to 20 percent after five years and zero after 15 years, under an agreement in principle announced by the companies Wednesday. The venture will consist of GTE's network switching business, which employs about 2,000 workers in the Phoenix, Ariz., area and about 3,000 in factories in the Chicago suburbs of Northlake and Genoa, Ill. AT&T will give the joint venture licenses to use some of AT&T's own advanced switching technology. It will continue to run its own network switching business independently of the joint venture. AT&T dominates the U.S. market for network switches, which are basically computers installed in the central offices of phone companies that are loaded with complex software to handle high-tech communications. The newest switches are being upgraded at enormous expense to handle simultaneous transmission of voices, computer data, video signals and other information over the same circuits. The deal eases GTE out of a costly business where it has been an also-ran with about 10 percent of the market, consisting mainly of the GTE local phone companies, said John Bain, an analyst for Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. Financial arrangements were not disclosed, but since GTE's contribution is substantially larger it is reasonable to assume that AT&T will be making some kind of payment to GTE, GTE spokesman Thomas Mattausch said. GTE's customers should benefit because the joint venture will work on enhancing GTE switches using the latest in AT&T technology, the companies said. The companies' switches happen to be similar, so there is plenty of room for sharing of technology, Mattausch said. In the long term, AT&T is likely to steer GTE customers toward AT&T switches, Bain predicted. GTE has reduced its involvement in other parts of the communications equipment business in recent years by entering joint ventures with West Germany's Siemens AG and Japan's Fujitsu Ltd. ITT Corp., following a similar pattern, reduced its involvement in the network switching business at the end of 1986 by placing its telecommunications equipment business in a European-based joint venture with France's Compagnie Generale d'Electricite."	" Michael Dukakis opened a 10-day final push in his underdog bid for the presidency Saturday by promising a crowd of about 10,000 at a rousing rally that he would fight for American farmers and workers. Dukakis stopped on a trip to California to visit Sioux Falls for a ``Salute to Rural America,'' a fairgrounds event with an audience including supporters bused in from Iowa, North Dakota, Nebraska and Minnesota. ``They want you to forget their record,'' Dukakis told a boisterous crowd of about 10,000 people. ``Rural Americans have lost a lot, but they haven't lost their memories.'' The Democratic presidential nominee blamed Reagan administration farm policies for a drop in farm exports, falling crop prices and the loss of 250,000 family farms in the past eight years. Dukakis promised an administration sympathetic to small towns and said rival George Bush instead wanted to give a $40 billion tax break to the nation's wealthy. ``They want to help the people who live high off the hog,'' Dukakis said. ``We want to help the people in this country who raise the hogs.'' Dukakis, surrounded by elected officials from the five states, told his audience that the ``Republican philosophy is the fewer farms the better.'' ``Every farm and ranch in this country counts, and every small town is somebody's home,'' Dukakis said to enthusiastic applause. Dukakis ridiculed Bush's promise to wage a ``kinder, gentler'' campaign in the final weeks, a pledge Bush made just before resuming harsh attacks on Dukakis. ``I wish his handlers would make up his mind,'' Dukakis said. Sioux Falls was the first stop for Dukakis on a final-push campaign trip that will bring him to an average of four cities a day. Still well behind Bush in most polls but encouraged by a recent tightening of the race, Dukakis is keeping a high television profile during the waning days of the campaign to help him spread his message. Dukakis tailored his Populist appeal to rural and farm issues, accusing the Reagan administration of turning its back on family farmers and rural communities. He also criticized a Friday decision by the administration to refuse a request by U.S. rice farmers to investigate Japan's trading practices and said the decision was an ominous harbinger of the trade policies Bush would bring to the White House. ``This decision is only the latest instance of the Republicans' refusal to stand up for American jobs and American farmers in world markets,'' Dukakis said in a statement. ``The facts are so unequivocal that this decision raises grave doubts about the Republicans' intention to enforce the new trade act.'' In contrast, Dukakis said, he and running mate Lloyd Bentsen would demand that foreign countries with access to U.S. markets open their doors to U.S. products. And he said a Dukakis administration would bring to rural America reasonable price supports for farmers, financing for economic development in rural communities, an immediate $100 million investment in rural health care, and agressive enforcement of worker safety guidelines _ a hot issue in this state, where the John Morrell & Co., meatpacking plant was fined $4.3 million Friday after being accused of violations of safety standards. Dukakis met with several Morrell workers before addressing the rally, and he questioned the timing of the fine. ``We're not going to wait until 10 days before the election to do something about it,'' he said of safety problems in the meatpacking and other industries. He also said the Farmers Home Administration was waiting until six days after the election to mail out notices to 90,000 family farmers, telling them they will have to refinance loans or face foreclosure. Dukakis said he could sense the race was tightening and joked about his vision of the outcome. ``This one is going to go down to the wire and it's going to be one by a nose,'' Dukakis said. ``If this one is one by a nose, I don't have to tell you who's going to win.'' Dukakis headed from South Dakota to California for an evening rally with supporters in the Watts section of Los Angeles. On Sunday he is taking a train tour through several California communities. Dukakis is on the road through Election Day, scheduled to arrive home on a cross-country flight that gets him to Boston shortly after the polls open."	" Stock prices sagged again today, extending Tuesday's sharp decline. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials, down 78.22 points on Tuesday, was off 6.18 at 2,439.36 by 3 p.m. today on Wall Street. Losers outnumbered gainers by almost 5 to 2 in nationwide trading of New York Stock Exchange-listed issues, with 420 up, 1,028 down and 495 unchanged. Analysts said rumors of increasing tensions in the Persian Gulf caused some fresh problems for the market. The atmosphere was already gloomy, they noted, following Tuesday's upsurge in oil prices to above $40 a barrel. Today crude-oil futures for November delivery pushed past $41 a barrel in early trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, then dropped back to the neighborhood of $39.50. Recession worries have intensified of late as analysts continue to cut their earnings estimates for a wide range of companies. Profit reports for the third quarter of the year will reach flood stage over the next couple of weeks. Motorola rose 1&lsqb; to 53~ in active trading after taking a 7-point drop Tuesday, when the company posted a quarterly earnings gain that fell short of expectations. Losers among the blue-chip industrials included Aluminum Co. of America, down 2{ at 57\; American Telephone & Telegraph, down &rsqb; at 31|; General Electric, down | at 52\, and Mobil, down ~ at 58|. The NYSE's composite index of all its listed common stocks dropped .91 to 166.50. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index was down 2.66 at 300.39. Volume on the Big Board came to 133.34 million shares with an hour to go."	" Sportscaster Howard Cosell drank ``before, during and after telecasts'' and once threw up on Don Meredith's cowboy boots during ``Monday Night Football,'' a former ABC Sports executive says in a forthcoming book. In ``Up Close & Personal: The Inside Story of Network Television Sports,'' Jim Spence also calls Cosell ``one of the unhappiest human beings on this planet.'' Spence, who worked at ABC for 26 years, was senior vice president of ABC Sports from 1978 until he left the network in 1986. He is now president of a sports production and marketing company. His book, co-written with Dave Diles, will be in bookstores next month. Spence describes Cosell as an insecure, overbearing man who became impossible to work with late in his career. ``He had made millions of dollars, traveled the world, been applauded and honored time and time again. Yet, today, I think he is one of the unhappiest human beings on this planet,'' he wrote. Cosell, 70, could not be reached for comment Wednesday. A woman answering the phone at his home said he was visiting his wife at a New York hospital, where she is recovering from surgery. According to Spence, Cosell's drinking sometimes became a ``major problem.'' During a ``Monday Night Football'' telecast from Philadelphia in 1970, he said, Cosell ``got so drunk he couldn't pronounce the name of the city he was in without slurring.'' Cosell left the booth after throwing up on Meredith, one of his broadcasting partners. At the request of ABC Sports chief Roone Arledge, Spence said, an ABC spokesman told reporters that Cosell became ill after one drink because of a reaction to flu medication he was taking. Spence said Cosell ``again got out of control'' during ABC's telecast of the 1984 American League playoffs when he kept kept interrupting colleague Al Michaels. Spence said he got a call the next day from Michael's agent, who said ``Al had told him that Cosell was drinking heavily and was impossibly argumentative, and that Al could no longer tolerate it.'' Cosell's relationship with Michaels and other ABC sportscasters reached a low point after he criticized them in his 1985 book, ``I Never Played the Game.'' ``We were all sick and tired of his bad-mouthing of everybody and everything,'' Spence wrote. Cosell left the network in 1985. In January, he started a nationally-syndicated TV show that recently went off the air."	" RIYADH, Saudi Arabia - The Pentagon warned Saddam Hussein today that U.S. air power will be ready to attack Iraq by Jan. 1 - even if all ground forces are not ready for war by that U.N.-imposed deadline for him to withdraw from Kuwait. The statement came from a top aide to Defense Secretary Dick Cheney the morning after a senior U.S. commander here raised eyebrows by saying American ground troops might not be ready to fight Iraq until a month or more past the United Nations deadline - and that he would urge President Bush not to order any attack until the full U.S. deployment was ready for war. Cheney spokesman Pete Williams said Cheney ``was not displeased'' by Lt. Gen. Calvin A.H. Waller's candid assessment. Still, today's statement by Williams and other comments by senior military officers here appeared clearly designed to give the deadline more teeth to counter any interpretation of Waller's remarks as possibly undermining Bush's demand that Saddam meet the deadline or risk attack. ---&equals; WASHINGTON - The Bush administration, trying to blunt criticism in Congress, says U.S. allies have spent more than $9 billion for the American-led military showdown with Iraq and ``the support is there.'' Some lawmakers have accused Germany and Japan - wealthy nations dependent on oil imports - of letting the United States shoulder the financial and military burden of the Persian Gulf crisis. Sen. Jim Sasser, D-Tenn., said Saudi Arabia was reaping a windfall profit of about $150 million a day in increased oil sales and have contributed only $987 million in cash and material - equivalent to about 6.5 days' worth of those profits. Sasser, chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, said Japan had pledged $4 billion to the gulf effort and had paid $374 million through Nov. 30. Germany, he said, had offered $900 million and paid $330 million. ---&equals;"	" He recommended to the class a collection of Robinson poems for which he had written an introduction some years ago. ``I read this through last night to see if I agree with myself, which I don't always, and I must say I do, so it's safe.'' Later Dickey was reading from the critic Edmund Wilson, who wrote in passing that he thought Emily Dickinson was overrated. Dickey's eyes left the page, rolled upward, and he shook his head. ``No, no, Edmund. You're wrong about that, dead wrong,'' he said, then continued reading. ``Mr. Dickey has opinions all right,'' said a student, Alan Asnen. ``You have the feeling he knows what he's talking about. I think he knows ... everything. He certainly knows poetry, and loves it.'' Dickey at one moment appears hard and demanding and at the next soft enough to cry on. Lecturing from his place at the head of the table, he rarely glances at the notes spread before him. Instead, as he talks, his gaze flits from face to face, lighting on each randomly, like a pollenating bee. When he reads a poem aloud he yields completely to the lust of language and rhythm and imagery. The effect sifts through the room like perfume. He caresses each word, his soft voice adding its own poetic sauce. At the end, he holds the final lines in his mouth, tasting them, and raises his face to the class with a spreading glow of satisfaction. ``Cut,'' he says at last, ending the spell. ``Go to black, or whatever it is they say in Hollywood when it can't get any better.'' James Dickey, Georgia born, has been writer in residence at the University of South Carolina for 23 years now. But he is no campus decoration, seen only at book signings and sherry parties. Clearly, he loves the classroom. ``A lot of American writers feel that teaching is an imposition keeping them from their work,'' he says. ``I don't. Teaching forces you to get your own ideas straight. They vary from year to year, but when you get in front of a classroom you at least have to say what you think and how you feel.'' So Dickey teaches two courses, four classes twice a week, although the school has asked him to drop one, a workshop on modern American poetry, to give him more time to write. Lack of time, however, doesn't seem to have hampered him so far. He has eight projects in the works, including a sequel to his 1987 novel ``Alnilam'' which he considers ``20 times better'' than ``Deliverance.'' He's also working on a book of collected poems, a book of literary criticism and a fourth children's book. Just last month he brought out a book of poems titled ``The Eagle's Mile'' which he brought with him to class. ``There will be a signing at the bookstore Saturday,'' he said. Then he added in a conspirator's whisper, ``I'm going to take roll.'' Then he reminded the class of aspiring young poets yearning to be published of what the poet Conrad Aiken said about bringing out a new book of poetry. ``He said waiting for the reaction is like dropping a feather into the Grand Canyon and listening for the echo.'' James Dickey continued: ``For everybody in this class I wish only one thing, that you concentrate your efforts to one end. ``Not to publish. Not to be famous. Not to make money, because that just ain't going to happen no matter how good or famous you are. ``Concentrate all your energies toward writing something that will stand up, that will move people, that will stay with them, disturb them, amplify what used to be called their souls. ``Do that. Do that. There is hope for all of us.'' Class dismissed."	" The African National Congress recommended Monday that Nelson Mandela meet rival black leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi, a breakthrough that could help ease the violence in black townships. The ANC proposed a meeting between itself and Buthelezi's conservative Inkatha Freedom Party ``in the near future,'' but did not specify a date. The ANC statement said both Mandela and Buthelezi should attend. Buthelezi said he welcomed the offer and was ready to consider a suitable time and place for the talks. Mandela is in Australia and will be traveling throughout Asia until early November. Since his release from prison in February, Mandela has turned down invitations from his old friend Buthelezi despite the ongoing violence between their supporters in the eastern province of Natal and in black areas outside Johannesburg. ANC leaders have harshly briticized Buthelezi and accused him of orchestrating the violence to obtain a meeting with Mandela and enhance his stature. Buthelezi has denied the charge and accused the ANC of trying to destroy all rivals. The ANC was conciliatory in its statement Monday. The group said ``it welcomed the steps being taken jointly by the ANC and the Inkatha Freedom Party'' to stop the violence. The two sides have been holding periodic peace talks, but neither Mandela nor Buthelezi has attended. About 5,000 blacks have died in the ANC-Inkatha power struggle since 1986 in Natal Province. The fighting spread to the Johannesburg area in August and has claimed 800 lives. The ANC and Inkatha, the two largest black opposition movements, both oppose apartheid but differ over tactics and a future South Africa. The socialist-oriented ANC has employed boycotts, strikes, protests and waged an armed struggle, recently suspended, in its battle against the government. Inkatha does not endorse any of those measures and favors capitalism. The ANC draws support across tribal lines, while virtually all Inkatha members are Zulus. The ANC also has opposed Buthelezi's role as leader of the KwaZulu homeland in Natal Province. The ANC considers the 10 black homelands part of the apartheid system. Buthelezi, meanwhile, sees the limited self-government in the homelands as an interim step on the road to black majority rule."	" Tropical Storm Klaus, which strengthened after being downgraded to a depression, threatened the Bahamas and contributed to flooding along Florida's Atlantic shores Monday. The National Hurricane Center in suburban Coral Gables was also tracking Tropical Storm Lili, which formed in the central Atlantic but posed no immediate threat to land. At 6 p.m. EDT, Klaus had top winds of 40 mph, just over the threshold of storm strength. Its center was near 22.2 degrees north latitude and 70.8 degrees west longitude, or about 470 miles southeast of Nassau in the Bahamas. Klaus was moving northwest at 15 mph and was expected to continue on that track for the next day or two, forecasters said. Tropical storm warnings were in effect for the central Bahamas in the Caribbean, the northern Bahamas were under a tropical storm watch and a coastal flood watch was in effect for Florida's east coast and Keys. Some increase in strength was likely during the next day for Klaus, which at one point was strong enough to be the sixth hurricane of the season. The storm was expected to strengthen, but wasn't expected to move over Florida, said Bob Sheets, director of the hurricane center. ``We think it's going to move on a northwest course and most likely will not move over Florida, particularly South Florida.'' However, Klaus-related winds were already partly responsible for beach erosion, rough surf and potentially deadly rip currents along Florida's eastern coast, and heavy winds and rain elsewhere in the state, the center said. Klaus killed at least six people and left 1,500 homeless in the northeastern Caribbean before being downgraded Saturday to a typical storm when its top winds dropped below 73 mph. It was downgraded late Sunday to a tropical depression when its winds dipped below 39 mph. Meanwhile, tropical storm Lili at At 6 p.m. was located near 32.7 degrees north latitude and 47.5 degrees west longitude, or about 1,000 miles west-southwest of the Azores, a group of islands off Portugal. Lili, with top winds near 65 mph, was expected to strengthen during the next day as it moved southwest at 7 mph, forecasters said."	" Relief services for about 260,000 Palestinian refugees in Lebanon will be cut to the minimum because of the kidnapping of two Scandinavian employees of the U.N. Relief and Works Agency, the agency said Saturday. ``There will be noticeable changes in UNRWA services and activities because of security problems and the lack of freedom of movement,'' said agency spokesman Niall Kiely. ``We feel agency staff, be they foreign nationals or locals, are under threat to their physical safety.'' UNRWA employees Jan Stening, 44 of Sweden, and William Jorgensen, 58, of Norway, were kidnapped Feb. 5. UNRWA said Palestinians, acting independently of guerrilla factions, kidnapped the men for personal motives. Kiely said only four of the 14 international staff assigned to Lebanon remained in west Beirut and ``they are very heavily involved in the search for Stening and Jorgensen.'' He said he was ``reasonably hopeful'' that the Scandinavians would be released because ``there are no real setbacks'' in negotiations. He did not elaborate. Kiely said UNRWA has canceled a repair program for Beirut's war-ravaged Chatilla and Bourj el-Barajneh Palestinian refugee camps ``because it can't be supervised.'' About 2,200 local relief workers serve with UNRWA at field centers in Lebanon. Kiely said another impact of the kidnappings in south Lebanon was that all UNRWA transports between Beirut and the southern port cities of Sidon and Tyre have been stopped both ways. He said agency operations such as schools ``have a certain momentum, so for the moment many services will continue to run as before.''"	" A cold front from Nova Scotia through the mid-Atlantic Coast into the lower Mississippi Valley brought showers and scattered thunderstorms Friday to eastern New England and the mid-Atlantic states. Showers and thunderstorms were spotty elsewhere in the nation. In Des Moines, Iowa, where rainfall was 7{ inches below normal for the year, showers on Friday only brought .01 inches to the area. Showers and thunderstorms developed in parched areas of the Southeast, from western North Carolina into south central Alabama, north central and northeast Texas and the central and southern Gulf Coast. Showers and thunderstorms were scattered in parts of eastern and southern Nevada, southwest Utah, northern Arizona, northwest New Mexico and central Colorado. Temperatures Friday afternoon were in the 80s or 90s across much of the nation. The coolest temperatures were in the 50s and 60s in the Pacific Northwest, the 60s from upper Michigan into northeast Ohio and northwest Pennsylvania, and across much of New England. Temperatures were in the 70s from the upper Mississippi Valley and lower Great Lakes into the central Appalachians. Temperatures were already above 100 degrees across the desert Southwest. The lowest temperature for the nation Friday was 32 at Marquette, Mich. The national weather forecast for Saturday includes scattered showers and thunderstorms in the front range of the Colorado Rockies, the lower Mississippi Valley and parts of the Middle Atlantic and southern Appalachian regions. The rest of the nation will have mostly sunny skies. High temperatures will be in the 80s or 90s across much of the nation; in the 70s from the eastern Great Lakes through New England and along the California coast into the Pacific Northwest, with a few highs in the mid 60s; and, from 100 to 115 across the desert Southwest."	" A gunman who infiltrated from Egypt sprayed four Israeli vehicles with assault rifle fire Sunday, killing four people and wounding 24, the army said. The army said the lone gunman killed three Israeli army soldiers and a civilian driver for the national Egged bus company on the Israeli-Egyptian border, about 15 miles northwest of the Israeli Red Sea resort of Eilat. The gunman escaped back into Egypt. A senior Egyptian security source said an Egyptian border policeman assigned to the area of the attack had been arrested as the suspected assailant. Earlier reports from Cairo said the gunman had fired from the Egyptian side of the border. In Amman, Jordan a fundamentalist Islamic group Sunday claimed responsibility for the attack. The extremist Islamic Jihad-Beit Al-Maqdes, or Islamic Holy War-Jersualem, said the attack was carried out by ``one of our units operating in the land of Arabism and Islam, the land of Egypt.'' Defense Minister Moshe Arens called the attack ``a most serious incident'' and said Israel expected Egypt to take all the necessary steps to prevent such assaults. A military commander identified only as Brig. Gen. D. said on army radio that an Egyptian man ``whose identity is not clear to us at this moment'' infiltrated into Israel at the distance of about 300 yards from the scene of the shooting. ``He entered a dry riverbed, reached the road and lay in wait on the roadside,'' the commander said. The assailant opened fire on an army van, containing just the driver, who was injured but carried on for a few hundred yards and stopped. Another military car, also containing only one person and heading from Eilat to a nearby base, was hit by several bullets. The soldier inside was mortally wounded, drove for a few hundred yards and died, the commander said. Next came a military bus. The driver thought there had been an accident and stopped. He got out with his weapon but was shot dead ``at very close range'' before he could fire back. Finally, the attacker fired on an Egged bus carrying civilians working at military installations in the area. He wounded a security guard, who shot back, hitting the assailant. ``We found signs of blood showing that he was hit. I think this prevented a heavier tragedy,'' the commander said. ``The terrorist apparently intended to board the bus and take it over. He (the guard) did not let him come on board. He climbed down through the door and shot him, and from that moment the terrorist began running away.'' Reporters at the scene saw a red and white passenger bus with its windshield covered with bullet holes. Police forensic experts were seen picking up bullets around the bus. Isaac Bar-Moshe, press officer at the Israeli Embassy in Cairo, said the gunman had used a Soviet-made Kalashnikov semiautomatic rifle. If the attack was indeed committed by a member of Egypt's uniformed forces, it would be the second. On Oct. 5, 1985, an Egyptian border police officer went berserk and shot dead four Israeli children, two women and an elderly man near the border in the Sinai Desert. Before Sunday, the latest attack on an Israeli target in Egypt was on Feb. 4, when gunmen ambushed a tour bus, killing nine Israeli vacationers. The attack took place on a desert road between Cairo and the Suez Canal city of Ismailiya. Egypt is the only Arab state to have a peace treaty with Israel. After the treaty was signed in 1979, Israel began withdrawing from the Egyptian Sinai peninsula, which it occupied in 1967. Between 1984 and 1987, two Israeli diplomats and six Israelis were wounded in Cairo in a number of attacks claimed by an Egyptian terrorist organization, Egypt's Revolution."	" Stock prices advanced broadly this morning in early, moderate trading after the Tokyo market and other overseas exchanges regained strength. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials gained 7.66 points to 2,591.22 in the first half hour of trading. Advancing issues outnumbered losers by more than 2 to 1 in nationwide trading of New York Stock Exchange-listed issues, with 620 up, 286 down and 467 unchanged. Volume on the Big Board came to 21.87 million shares as of 10 a.m. on Wall Street. On the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the key Nikkei index rose more than 400 points in early trading, but then plunged on a wave of computer-guided selling by foreign institutions. But the Japanese market recovered as investors gradually returned and computerized buy programs kicked in. By the close, the Nikkei index gained 92.51 points, or 0.25 percent, to move to 35,826.84. On Wednesday, the Nikkei plummeted more than 3 percent for its third-worst drop ever. The plunge helped set off a tumble on Wall Street, but the U.S. markets later recovered as institutional investors took advantage of bargains. This morning, the NYSE's composite index of all its listed common stocks gained 0.30 to 181.37. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index was up 0.63 at 353.58. On Wednesday, the Dow Jones average of 30 industrials closed down 13.29 points to 2,583.56. Declining issues outnumbered advances by about 5 to 3 in nationwide trading of New York Stock Exchange-listed stocks, with 577 up, 963 down and 455 unchanged. Volume on the floor of the Big Board totaled 159.24 million shares, up from 147.30 million in the previous session."	" Democratic Sen. Paul Simon captured a second term Tuesday, fending off a challenge by Republican Rep. Lynn Martin, whose anti-tax message and late call for limiting the terms of Washington lawmakers failed to dent the popularity of the liberal incumbent."	" The African National Congress recommended Monday that Nelson Mandela meet rival black leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi, a breakthrough that could help ease the violence in black townships. The ANC proposed a meeting between itself and Buthelezi's conservative Inkatha Freedom Party ``in the near future,'' but did not specify a date. The ANC statement said both Mandela and Buthelezi should attend. Buthelezi said he welcomed the offer and was ready to consider a suitable time and place for the talks. Mandela is in Australia and will be traveling throughout Asia until early November. Since his release from prison in February, Mandela has turned down invitations from his old friend Buthelezi despite the ongoing violence between their supporters in the eastern province of Natal and in black areas outside Johannesburg. ANC leaders have harshly briticized Buthelezi and accused him of orchestrating the violence to obtain a meeting with Mandela and enhance his stature. Buthelezi has denied the charge and accused the ANC of trying to destroy all rivals. The ANC was conciliatory in its statement Monday. The group said ``it welcomed the steps being taken jointly by the ANC and the Inkatha Freedom Party'' to stop the violence. The two sides have been holding periodic peace talks, but neither Mandela nor Buthelezi has attended. About 5,000 blacks have died in the ANC-Inkatha power struggle since 1986 in Natal Province. The fighting spread to the Johannesburg area in August and has claimed 800 lives. The ANC and Inkatha, the two largest black opposition movements, both oppose apartheid but differ over tactics and a future South Africa. The socialist-oriented ANC has employed boycotts, strikes, protests and waged an armed struggle, recently suspended, in its battle against the government. Inkatha does not endorse any of those measures and favors capitalism. The ANC draws support across tribal lines, while virtually all Inkatha members are Zulus. The ANC also has opposed Buthelezi's role as leader of the KwaZulu homeland in Natal Province. The ANC considers the 10 black homelands part of the apartheid system. Buthelezi, meanwhile, sees the limited self-government in the homelands as an interim step on the road to black majority rule."	" A chain saw is useful for cleanup and maintenance of your yard and garden, but observe some basics for safe and easy operation. Solo Incorporated, which makes chain saws, has these tips: _ When starting the chain saw, place it on level ground at least 10 feet from the gas can and fueling area. Hold the saw down by placing one foot on the rear handlebar while firmly holding the front handlebar with one hand. If your saw has only a top handlebar, hold it firmly on the ground, pulling up on the starting grip. _ Hold the saw firmly with both hands, maintaining a secure grip. This will help you avoid injury from kickback. Don't overreach or cut above shoulder height, and when cutting logs, only cut one at a time. _ In bucking timber, don't stand directly behind the saw while cutting. Position yourself so you'll be away from the direction of the log roll. Hold the saw on the right side of your body (outside the line of sight across the chain) to minimize chances of injury from an unexpected broken chain or kickback. Examine the log for internal stress _ a bowed appearance is an indication _ and avoid cutting the log on the wrong side, which can result in kickback. _ To avoid kickback while limbing, make sure the log is in a secure position and work on the safest side _ usually uphill and away from the fall of cut limbs. To avoid kickback, make sure the guidebar's tip doesn't come in contact with another branch, the side of a tree, or another object. When limbing, bend your knees slightly and position your right leg behind the front carrying handlebar. The left leg should be forward and away from the guidebar's contact range. Avoid standing on limbs, slash or debris. _ Survey the area before felling a tree. Is the trunk sound or hollow and rotted? What's the wind direction and speed? Which direction is the tree leaning in? Is the tree's crown denser and heavier on one side? When you've determined the answers to these questions, figure your escape route, which should be at a 45-degee angle back from the line of the fall. When you have checked this and cleared the small limbs and branches from the bottom portion of the trunk, you're ready to fell the tree. Stand away from the tree and maintain a balanced stance. Then start by making a careful undercut. This notch, cut to a depth of a quarter-inch, will determine the line of the fall and should be positioned at a right angle to the projected fall. _ Wear protective clothing each time you use a saw. These include goggles or a face mask, snug but comfortable work clothing, cuffless long pants, hearing protection, non-slip safety gloves, and boots with steel toecaps."	" East Germany's former Communist economics czar, who is accused of corruption, has been released from prison because of failing health, officials said Monday. Doctors agreed that Guenter Mittag, 63, was too ill to remain in jail where he was being held in preventive custody, said East German justice officials who asked not to be identified. Mittag was responsible for economic policy in the Communist government that was ousted during last fall's pro-democracy movement. He had been in prison since December and is accused of corruption and sabotaging the country's economy. Other top officials under investigation by the new democratically elected government include former Communist leader Erich Honecker and longtime security chief Erich Mielke. Mittag suffers from acute diabetes, said East German justice officials. He is considered to be the most ill of all the former Communist party leaders under investigation."	" African guerrilla leader Sam Nujoma is asking presidential hopefuls Michael Dukakis and Jesse Jackson to pressure South Africa into relinquishing control over South-West Africa, the territory known as Namibia. Nujoma, who heads the South-West Africa People's Organization, said he had met with campaign managers who promised him a meeting with the two Democratic candidates within the coming week. GOP contender George Bush has not responded to a similar request for a meeting, Nujoma said in an interview Tuesday. Nujoma, 58, said that despite claims to the contrary, South Africa is trying to strengthen its hold over the mineral-rich territory which it rules in defiance of a 1978 U.N. resolution calling for Namibian independence. Nujoma, who lives in exile in Angola, accused South African troops of arson and bombing attacks against Namibia's 1.5 million residents, including the burning of 14 church-run schools last month. South Africa has denied the charges, accusing SWAPO of the attacks. South African President P.W. Botha paid a rare visit to the territory on April 8, and proposed increased powers for his chief representative there. The proposal would weaken the ``transitional'' government established by South Africa in 1985 with a view to eventual independence for Namibia. ``South Africa has no intention whatsoever to leave Namibia,'' said Nujoma. The South Africans will have to be ``forced out by the combined resistance of the Namibian people and international pressure.'' He called on the next U.S. administration to pursue steps similar to the trade sanctions legislated by Congress in 1986 against South Africa. Nujoma said he had requested a meeting with Secretary of State George P. Shultz but had not received any response. A State Department official confirmed Nujoma had asked for a meeting, and said Shultz had yet to reply. Shultz has been criticized by conservative members of Congress, such as Rep. Patrick Swindall, R-Ga., for allowing Nujoma into the country in view of his organization's guerrilla activities and support from the Soviet Union. In a letter to Shultz, Swindall called Nujoma a ``terrorist and Soviet puppet.'' The United States supports a South African pullout and an independent Namibia, but its contacts with SWAPO have been limited. U.S. representatives are taking part in two days of talks in London with representatives from Angola, Cuba and South Africa on a plan for the pullout of South African forces from Namibia and Cuban troops from Angola. Cuba has an estimated 37,000 soldiers in Angola. Estimates for the South African military presence in Namibia range from 40,000 to 100,000. Nujoma said he was sure Angola would protect his group's interests at the talks and press its demands for Namibian independence. ``It will be a package, I am assured of this by the Angolan government,'' he said. If an agreement is worked out, SWAPO will stop its attacks against South African troops, he said. SWAPO says it killed more than 90 South Africans this year, but its claims cannot be verified. Nujoma conceded that SWAPO gets most of its arms and training from the Soviet Union, Cuba, Yugoslavia, Angola and several other members of the Organization of African Unity. But he added that if the United States wants to supply SWAPO with weapons, ``we will certainly accept it with great pleasure.'' Nujoma is on a three-week visit to the United States to attend several U.N.-sponsored seminars on Namibia and to highlight his organization's demands."	" Five young adults exploring a storm drain were found alive after being washed away by runoff from a thunderstorm Thursday night, authorities said. The five, who were among eight people 18 to 25 years old who were exploring the drain, were located about 350 yards inside the drain about 11:30 p.m., said Fire Department spokesman Brad Stewart. ``They're all alive,'' Stewart said. One of the eight, John Shaffer of Charleston, said he and two friends were able to escape the drain. ``We got washed down the tube,'' said Shaffer, 21. ``We got a quarter of the way down and the water got so high. We tried to get out and we got washed out. ``We were just exploring there,'' he said. ``It wasn't raining when we went in, but then the water came in.'' The storm dumped up to 1{ inches of rain in a two-hour period in the area, the National Weather Service said."	" Daily massage can speed up the growth of premature babies who were exposed to cocaine in the womb, a study says. As a result, the babies were able to leave the hospital about four days earlier on average than non-massaged premature infants, researcher Tiffany Field said Monday. Faster-growing babies also become more responsive, which promotes interaction with parents, she said. Other research shows that parental involvement helps a child's development in the first year of life, she said. Fetuses are exposed to cocaine when a pregnant woman uses the drug. Such use raises the risk of premature birth. Field is a professor of pediatrics, psychology and psychiatry at the University of Miami Medical School. She reported preliminary results from the study at the annual meeting of the American Psychological Association, and discussed it in a later interview. The meeting concludes Tuesday. The study, still in progress, has so far produced data on 16 infants. They were born about 10 weeks before their due dates, weighing about 2.6 pounds. They had to stay 20 days to 30 days in a neonatal intensive care unit. Normally, such children then require about 20 days in the hospital simply to gain enough weight to be discharged, Field said. The massage program took place during this latter period. Infants were massaged with firmness, Field said. ``They love it when you give them a little pressure,'' she said. The routine included 10 seconds of working over the top of the head and down to the neck, and then 10 seconds going the other way, she said. Also massaged were the neck and shoulders, back, legs and arms. The chest and abdomen were avoided because the infants obviously did not like being touched there, perhaps associating it with painful medical procedures, Field said. After five minutes of massage, the babies' arms and legs were moved about for five minutes, and then came five more minutes of massage. The 15-minute sessions were done three times a day for 10 days. The massaged babies gained 28 percent more weight per day after the treatment than a comparison group of 16 premature infants who had also been exposed to cocaine, but who were not massaged, Field said. The difference appeared around the sixth day of the treatment and continued for at least a few days after it ended, when researchers stopped keeping track, Field said. Nobody knows why massage spurs growth, but perhaps it stimulates release of hormones that aid absorption of food, she said. Prior studies of premature babies have shown simply holding or paying attention to them did not cause them to gain weight, Field said. The massage treatment looks promising, said a prominent pediatric researcher, Dr. T. Berry Brazelton of Cambridge, Mass. But he cautioned that ``it has to be done with sensitivity to the baby's condition and responses.'' The massager must ease up in response to signals from the infant, he said. Massage had already been shown to speed up the growth of premature infants not exposed to cocaine, Field said. In one study, a 10-day course of daily massage spurred weight gain by 47 percent. The massaged infants were able to leave the hospital six days sooner, saving substantial sums of money in health care costs, Field said. About 10 percent of births in the United States are premature, amounting to 350,000 a year, according to the March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation. Most premature infants weigh less than 5.5 pounds at birth. About 15 percent to 20 percent of premature infants die in the first month after birth."	" Future peace talks between Nicaragua's leftist government and its Contra rebels are likely to have a political hue the Sandinistas never wanted. The government appeared to open the door to political discussions with its armed opponents by belatedly agreeing in principle last week to a proposal by the mediator of the negotiations, Cardinal Miguel Obando y Bravo, head of the Roman Catholic Church in Nicaragua. That proposal called on the Contras to accept a cease-fire in exchange for four major concessions by the Sandinista government. The concessions were something the Contras had been seeking, and they were quick to accept the cardinal's plan. The government was called upon to grant unrestricted freedom of the press and a total, unconditional amnesty for political prisoners, renew a dialogue with its internal opposition and review its universal military conscription law. Whether it was a tactical error or a considered response, the Sandinistas delayed in taking a position that President Daniel Ortega has long and strenuously opposed. On innumerable occasions in the past, he has said he would never discuss political matters with the Contras. ``We don't want to create the impression that we don't want a cease-fire and are being intransigent,'' said Paul Reichler, a Washington, D.C., attorney who advises the Sandinistas. ``At all costs, we want the negotiations to go forward.'' Reichler's comments came in a chat with reporters Friday after Obando y Bravo abruptly suspended the latest round of peace talks a day before they were supposed to end and obliquely blamed the Sandinistas for the breakdown. Ortega said Saturday in Managua that the cardinal's proposal ``was not rejected'' by the Sandinistas and said his government ``is willing to continue the conversations.'' But a clarification was needed on the withdrawal of the Contras to enclaves during the truce, Ortega said at the close of a government meeting. He repeated that his government is willing to apply an amnesty once a cease-fire is in effect. Referring to the military draft, he said ``it is logical that with the end of the war the military service will not require the current volume (of soldiers).'' Ortega told the meeting on new economic measures aimed at fighting inflation that ``enemies of the revolution'' opposed the measures. He said the right, the extreme left and the opposition daily La Prensa should be careful not to stir up insurrection. The cardinal said after his return to Managua on Saturday that with the suspension of talks, ``We have given time for reflection since there is a lack of trust between the two sides.'' Appearances are of vital importance to both sides, with neither party wanting to be seen as the spoiler as long as there is any remaining chance the U.S. Congress might approve additional military aid for the Contras. In private talks with reporters, the Sandinistas made it clear that they were initially surprised by the cardinal's five-point proposal, then disappointed by his abrupt cancellation of the talks. Victor Hugo Tinoco, Nicaragua's deputy foreign minister, said Obando halted the negotiations Friday afternoon before he had a chance to deliver the government's formal, written response to the proposal the cardinal put forth Thursday. But Tinoco insisted that he had discussed the government's position at length with the cardinal Friday morning and had not been given any reason to believe that the cardinal was unwilling to continue the negotiations. The cardinal ``did not tell us he disagreed'' with the government's position, Reichler told reporters later. In its written response, the government declared its ``agreement in principle'' with the cardinal's proposal, but carefully conditioned its answers to his requests that it reconsider its mandatory draft law and grant an unconditional amnesty to the thousands of political prisoners in Nicaraguan jails. But before Nicaragua's formal response was delivered, Obando had canceled the talks, saying he was disappointed that both sides had not accepted his proposal, at least in principle. The remark was clearly aimed at the Sandinistas. But late or not, the government's response clearly put such political matters as press freedom and amnesty on the bargaining table for further talks and, given the opening, the Contras are likely to push for even greater concessions. The cardinal is expected to announce a time and place for a third round of face-to-face negotiations sometime this week. The first round of talks took place in San Jose, Costa Rica, in late January, only a week before the House rejected President Reagan's latest request for about $43 million in additional Contra aid. But the administration is considering a new bid for military aid for the rebels, and as long as that possibility exists, both sides will be playing their cards cautiously at the bargaining table."	" Shining Path rebels assassinated two leaders of presidential candidate Mario Vargas Llosa's Democratic Front coalition in separate attacks, police said. The shootings took place less than two weeks before Vargas Llosa, a celebrated novelist and free-market advocate, faces centrist Alberto Fujimori in a runoff presidential election. Fujimori, a political newcomer, is favored to win the June 10 showdown. Felix Vega Riquelme, the former governor of Piura, was shot to death on Tuesday in the coastal city 530 miles northwest of Lima, police said. Hours later, in the Andean city of Cerro de Pasco, Prospero Delson Huaman was shot and killed, police said. Cerro de Pasco is 110 miles northeast of Lima. Vega was gunned down by two men on a motorcycle as he was getting out of a pickup truck, police said. An unidentified companion was seriously wounded. Delson was shot twice in the head by two rebels as he walked home from his job at the Centromin mining company, police said. Before the formation of the Democratic Front coalition, both men were leaders of the center-right Popular Action Party of former president Fernando Belaunde. The Maoist-inspired Shining Path has tried to sabotage the electoral process in Peru. Before April 8 general elections, the rebels called an armed strike in Lima and most of Peru's countryside. The government says more than 18,000 people have died in political violence since the Shining Path took up arms 10 years ago. Also Tuesday, police said villagers armed with sticks, stones and machetes battled over a disputed plot of land, leaving seven people dead. As many as 50 people were injured in the clash, which took place Monday night between the small Andean villages of Lircaycacca and Chinabamba, police said. The villages are 30 miles southeast of Huancavalica, an Andean city 145 miles southeast of Lima. The land battle followed three years of deteriorating relations between the two isolated villages, police said. Earlier clashes between the villages, each of which has 200 to 300 residents, resulted in injuries but no deaths, police said."	" Two mothers tipped police to drugs in their sons' bedrooms, leading to the arrest of one of the teen-agers and confiscation of cocaine from both, police said. The recent arrest of a 14-year-old Landover boy came after his mother told police that she had found the drug in the youth's room, said Carol Landrum, a spokesman for the police department. The son was charged with possession of a controlled dangerous substance with intent to distribute and was being held at Boys Village in Cheltenham, Landrum said. Police said they seized 19 grams of cocaine, which officers said could sell for $4,700 if divided into smaller amounts. Only one day earlier, another Landover woman told police she found nearly seven ounces of cocaine, with a street value police placed at about $47,000, under her son's bed and a handgun in his dresser drawer. Police did not immediately make an arrest in that case, Landrum said. Police declined to identify either woman. Police Chief Robert Zidek in neighboring Bladensburg, whose department offers parents a videotape showing how to search for drugs, said the mothers probably did the right thing to help their sons. ``They may have tried everything else, and nothing worked,'' Zidek said. He advises parents who think their child is using drugs to talk to the child first, get the child professional counseling and save calling the police as a last resort."	" Wood storks have come home to roost in southern Florida, but but naturalists are worried that the endangered birds won't have a chance to rear their young before the rainy season. Summer deluges at the storks' two major ancestral breeding grounds would drench nestlings and disperse the fish the birds rely on for food, they explained. Last week, 620 pairs of wood storks were nesting at Corkscrew Swamp Sanctuary, a National Audubon Society refuge about 20 miles north of Naples that was once the primary stork-nesting area in North America. Another 75 pairs have taken up residence at Everglades National Park's Cuthbert Island. The two sites were believed to have been all but abandoned by North America's sole species of stork, a giant white bird with an iron-black head. ``We are ecstatic to be able to report these numbers,'' said Paul Hinchcliff, chief naturalist at Corkscrew. ``Whether or not there's enough time before the start of the rainy season to fledge enough young remains to be seen.'' Almost all previous attempts to nest so late in the year have ended disastrously, said John Ogden, who heads a wood stork study team at Everglades National Park. If they are unable to feed offspring, parent birds will abandon the colony, leaving hundreds of crying young birds to starve. Wood storks have not produced offspring in significant numbers at Corkscrew since 1984-85, when 353 pairs of birds successfully raised 530 young. Fifty years ago, it was common to see 6,000 to 8,000 pairs of storks nesting in the gray-boughed cypress trees. Since the early 1960s, however, storks have been spurning Corkscrew in favor of central and northern Florida and other Southern states. Between 1960 and 1980, the wood stork nesting population at Corkscrew dropped by 75 percent. The renewed Corkscrew colony represents almost 30 percent of the total U.S. stork population, estimated at 4,000. Historically, storks came to Corkscrew by the tens of thousands to nest in early winter, leaving plenty of time to rear offspring before the onset of rain. But human activity disrupted the annual cycle of high-water summers and low-water winters in Florida's wetlands. Much of the area that provided shallow feeding waters for wood storks during the early winter has been drained for farming or sudivisions. The birds have been forced to wait until late winter or spring for the deeper waters of the interior Everglades to drop low enough for them to efficiently feed. As result, nesting is delayed, and this year's young won't be ready to leave their nests until about mid-July, Ogden said."	" Yellow Creek used to run black for miles, with a stench that made people retch. Red blisters disfigured fish in the stream. People downstream blamed pollution from a tannery and aged sewage treatment plant in this town of 13,000 for their neighbors' cancer deaths as well as their foul well water. In 1983, the city engineer testified that 2.5 million gallons of raw or partly treated sewage had been dumped into Yellow Creek that year alone. Today, Yellow Creek sparkles as it winds quietly through the thickly forested Appalachian hills. People who live along the creek say water quality is probably the best they've seen in a decade and credit the $7.7 million sewage treatment plant built in 1986. Credit is also due to the Yellow Creek Concerned Citizens, a local environmental group that has labored since 1980, filing lawsuits, lobbying Congress, holding candlelight memorials for people they believe were fatally sickened by pollution, occupying city hall to demand that the creek be cleaned. But the black tide, although receded, left behind a legacy of health questions and lingering legal challenges. Neighbors suspect that years of tannery pollution deposited a layer of toxic sediment in the creek bed. And they're worried that a new court agreement will loosen pollution regulations. Over the years, word of Yellow Creek and its lessons has stretched well beyond this mountainous corner of southeastern Kentucky. The tactics and victories of the Yellow Creek Concerned Citizens are being studied by environmental groups across America, and in some cases, around the world. ``Remember, this struggle for the small community of Yellow Creek is in no way the only one,'' said M.M. Chiputa of the Southern African Environmental Network of Zaire. ``We have it, you have it and they have it.'' Yellow Creek has gained such attention largely because of Larry Wilson, the president of the citizens group. Wilson is environmental programs director at the Highlander Institute in New Market, Tenn., which holds training sessions for social activists who hail from Bhopal, India, to Dayhoit, Ky. As a polished insider of the national environmental movement, Wilson wields influence that last month drew more than 100 activists from Massachusetts to Arkansas to a meeting on the future of Yellow Creek. John O'Connor, executive director of the National Toxics Campaign in Boston, struck a common theme among many of the speakers at the March 31 meeting. ``We kind of feel if they can get away with poisoning people in Yellow Creek, they can get away with poisoning anyone in the United States,'' O'Connor said. Yet Yellow Creek is anything but poisonous today, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. EPA environmental engineer Ron Barrow said results of a study of creek water and surface sediment, to be released later this month, will ``show significant improvements'' over a 1982 study of creek pollution. A standard EPA test using water fleas showed they not only survived but also reproduced in full-strength effluent from the new sewage plant. And Dirk Anderson, manager of the Middlesboro Tannery Co., says it ``has done an excellent job in meeting state and federal guidelines'' and ``installed the most efficient pretreatment system in the tanning industry today.'' He says the tannery's waste water ``is one of the best discharges in the United States'' and asks, ``What is the controversy?'' To many residents, the controversy remains vivid. An advisory warning residents of Bell County since the early 1980s not to swim in the creek, drink its water or eat its fish is still in force. Wilson asserts that he ``feels really comfortable'' in estimating that 100 deaths in the valley from cancer, leukemia and other illness can be linked to the pollution. A 1988 study of Bell County cancer rates, while failing to tie the illness to creek pollution, did show that residents face an increased risk of cancer. ``Those cancers that have been linked to occupational exposure to tannery work tend to be higher in Bell County than the comparison groups,'' said the report by Lorann Stallones, an epidemiologist with the University of Kentucky Medical Center. And a study done in the early 1980s by Vanderbilt University's Center for Health Services indicated that residents who drank well water tended to have higher rates of miscarriages, kidney and digestive ailments. A $31 million lawsuit filed by residents against the tannery in 1983 requested long-term health monitoring, a proposal supported then by a leading state health official. ``Toxic chemicals often take many years to produce their effects, and certainly there have been significant exposures in the past because of the tannery effluent,'' Dr. Arthur L. Frank of the University of Kentucky Medical Center said in a statement for the lawsuit. No long-term monitoring is underway, and the lawsuit is still pending in state court. Many of these concerns deal less with the creek's current water quality and more with the sediment on its bottom. A University of Louisville chemist probing the creek bed in 1987 found deep deposits of chromium, a byproduct of tanning. In research by the National Cancer Institute, chromium is suspected of causing cancer in humans. W. Hank Graddy III, attorney for the citizens' group, said the study indicated chromium was still accumulating ``even after all these years of litigation and trying (to) ... require them to adopt controls.'' Barrow, the EPA engineer, and Bill Phillips, an attorney for the agency, said they were not aware of any complaints about chromium deposits until a reporter posed questions about the matter earlier this month. That reaction, along with other official stances, has made Yellow Creek residents suspicious of government regulators, especially the EPA. Creek residents are worried, for example, about a new court document signed by the city, the tannery and the EPA that will alter the amount of chromium, cyanide, mercury, and bacteria allowed in tannery wastewater sent to the sewage plant. Graddy, Wilson and others contend the agreement will increase the permissable amounts and cause Yellow Creek to be polluted again. Attorneys for the city, tannery and EPA all say it would tighten pollution regulations, not make the situation worse. The agreement amends a 1985 consent decree that settled a 1984 lawsuit filed by the Justice Department. That suit alleged numerous violations of EPA regulations because raw sewage was spilling into the creek. The disagreement is so strong because each side is comparing the new document to a different prior arrangement: the officials assert the provisions strengthen the 5-year-old consent decree, and the environmentalists say they are weaker than those in an operative pollution permit dating from 1985. The citizens' group also opposes the agreement because it would reduce the fines levied against the city and tannery. Together, they have been fined at least $1.62 million for federal pollution violations, but collections would total only $177,400 under the pending amendment. ``The burden of proof is on the victims here,'' Wilson said, ``because government agencies and industry already have the money and lawyers in place to defend their position. ... ``We're overwhelmed,'' he said. ``We're fighting life and death.''"	" Relief services for about 260,000 Palestinian refugees in Lebanon will be cut to the minimum because of the kidnapping of two Scandinavian employees of the U.N. Relief and Works Agency, the agency said Saturday. ``There will be noticeable changes in UNRWA services and activities because of security problems and the lack of freedom of movement,'' said agency spokesman Niall Kiely. ``We feel agency staff, be they foreign nationals or locals, are under threat to their physical safety.'' UNRWA employees Jan Stening, 44 of Sweden, and William Jorgensen, 58, of Norway, were kidnapped Feb. 5. UNRWA said Palestinians, acting independently of guerrilla factions, kidnapped the men for personal motives. Kiely said only four of the 14 international staff assigned to Lebanon remained in west Beirut and ``they are very heavily involved in the search for Stening and Jorgensen.'' He said he was ``reasonably hopeful'' that the Scandinavians would be released because ``there are no real setbacks'' in negotiations. He did not elaborate. Kiely said UNRWA has canceled a repair program for Beirut's war-ravaged Chatilla and Bourj el-Barajneh Palestinian refugee camps ``because it can't be supervised.'' About 2,200 local relief workers serve with UNRWA at field centers in Lebanon. Kiely said another impact of the kidnappings in south Lebanon was that all UNRWA transports between Beirut and the southern port cities of Sidon and Tyre have been stopped both ways. He said agency operations such as schools ``have a certain momentum, so for the moment many services will continue to run as before.''"	" A Playboy magazine photographer will not be allowed to screen Providence College students for a ``Women of the Big East'' pictorial at either the Roman Catholic college or a Providence hotel, officials said. Photographer David Mecey had planned to meet with Providence College students for part of a Big East athletic conference layout scheduled for the April 1989 issue, Playboy spokeswoman Cindy Rakowitz said from New York. Mecey, who planned to stay in Providence from Wednesday through Friday, intended to interview and photograph women in various locations, including the Providence Marriott Inn where he had a reservation. The planned feature would include nude and semi-nude photos. The hotel's name and number were listed on a Playboy leaflet and in a quarter-page advertisement to appear in today's edition of The NewPaper, said Anne Trumbore, an employee at the weekly alternative newspaper. But Stephen McCarthy, the hotel's resident manager, said that when officials realized Wednesday morning who Mecey was, they decided not to allow him to conduct business at the hotel. Mecey was told by hotel officials when he arrived Wednesday night that he could not conduct interviews on hotel property. ``If he wants to stay here, he can. He has rented a room and we are in the business of renting rooms,'' said general manager Rene Neidhart. ``But he did not have our authorization to use our name in any advertisements, and he cannot interview or photograph in the hotel.'' ``I'm not entirely taken aback, but I think that's pretty drastic,'' said Rakowitz when informed of the Marriott's decision. ``That's sort of eliminating the rights of the individual to make a freedom of choice _ but a hotel is private property.'' Playboy also was banned from interviewing or staying at the Sheraton Tara in Braintree, Mass., when it interviews Boston College students in mid-November, said Jeff Cohen, Playboy's managing photo editor. Some people who arrived at the Marriott looking for Mecey were escorted off hotel property by security guards, said McCarthy. He said several people, both women and men, were removed from the lobby and floors. Playboy had decided against seeking the cooperation of administrators at any of the schools it will visit, deciding instead to advertise off-campus and in college newspapers. Playboy had hoped to run an ad in the Cowl, the student newspaper at the 3,800-student college, but students and administrators decided against it, said a school spokesman, the Rev. John McGreevy. Officials at St. John's University in New York, another Catholic school, decided earlier this month against running an article about the Playboy feature in its student newspaper. ``I'm still confident that we will recruit our women,'' said Rakowitz, who said about 20 women were wanted for the feature. ``I've never come into a problem at a hotel. I think it's sort of repressing.'' Other schools in the Big East Conference are Villanova University, in Villanova, Pa.; Washington's Georgetown University; Seton Hall University in South Orange, N.J.; the University of Connecticut; the University of Pittsburgh; and New York's Syracuse University."	" Black Denison University students called off a two-day boycott of classes Wednesday after the school's president stiffened the punishment for two white students found guilty of racial harassment. The Black Student Union, which had called the boycotts Monday and Tuesday, suspended the action after university President Andrew De Rocco ordered the two whites to leave the campus for the remainder of the semester. The students, who have not been identified by the university, were given until 5 p.m. Wednesday to leave. The University Judicial Board, comprised of four students and four faculty members, had earlier found the white students guilty of racial harassment of a black student and ordered the whites be suspended for the 1988 fall term. That suspension will remain in effect, but De Rocco on Tuesday night announced the additional sanctions. ``The issues raised by this case have led to an expression of intense feelings on the campus among students, faculty and others, to an interruption of classes and to an atmosphere that is not conducive to the orderly processes of student and faculty life,'' De Rocco said. The two white students were accused of harassing Aaron Laramore, a black senior from Toledo. Laramore claimed in a complaint he filed against the students that they pounded on the wall between their room and his and yelled racial epithets. The white students testified in their judicial board hearing that their remarks came in a private conversation. But the Black Student Union said the slurs were aimed at Laramore, the dormitory's head resident. Most students continued to attend classes during the two-day boycott, which was accompanied by rallies to protest campus racism and the initial one-semester suspensions. Bheki Khumalo, a member of the Black Student Union, said Wednesday said the group was not fully satisfied with the university's latest action, but believed the protest had accomplished its goal. ``Evidently, this was the best the president could do,'' Khumalo said. ``We've laid the foundation for more things to come on our campus.'' About 80 of Denison's 2,100 undergraduates are black, according to the university, a liberal arts school about 25 miles northeast of Columbus."
" The United States has suspended military and economic talks with Qatar to protest the Persian Gulf sheikdom's unauthorized acquisition of Stinger anti-aircraft missiles, U.S. diplomats said Wednesday. Assistant Secretary of State Richard Murphy said the suspension would remain in place until Qatar returns the missiles to the United States. ``What we have done is to place on hold a number of agreements that were under consideration,'' Murphy told the House subcommittee on Europe and the Middle East. ``We consider it very much in the interests of developing the solid relationship with Qatar that those missiles be returned soonest. And we've made that very clear,'' he added. Murphy himself made an official protest when he visited the Qatari capital of Doha last month. Another official, speaking on condition he not be named, said Qatar had been seeking several military and economic agreements with the United States, including the purchase of weapons. ``We told them everything is frozen,'' he added. ``Relations are now correct but cool.'' The United States does not have any defense cooperation with Qatar but considers the country important as a member of the pro-Western Gulf Cooperation Council which includes Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. U.S. officials wants to get the Stingers back in order to see their serial numbers and determine where Qatar got them. The United States first learned of the Stingers' presence in Qatar last March, when an embassy official saw one of the rockets in television footage of a military parade. U.S. officials say they do not know how many of the shoulder-fired rockets Qatar has. They have speculated that Qatar was given the Stingers by Iran, which in turn captured them from the U.S.-supplied Afghan rebels fighting against the Soviet occupation of their country. Other officials say Qatar may have bought the missiles on the black market, although that possibility is less likely. Strict controls apply to the sale of the Stingers, which are considered of great value to terrorists because they are portable and highly accurate. In response to questioning, Murphy said the United States was not considering recalling its ambassador to Qatar who heads a tiny mission of five Americans. Such a move would not be in the interests of maintaining relations with the pro-Western oil state, Murphy said. The ambassador ``is the only one with access to decision makers'' there, he added. Qatar contends it needs the missiles for self-defense and has rejected any attempts by U.S. officials to even see them."	" Diana Lewis works for the Police Department, but her truck has been forced into a life of crime. Her silver 1979 truck was stolen in early July and again this week from the same bus parking lot. Both times, police say, the truck was apparently used as a getaway vehicle by the same man to rob two banks. Enough's enough, says Ms. Lewis, who has transferred to a new police job and won't park her truck in the lot any more. ``The odds of becoming a victim around here seem to be getting smaller,'' said Ms. Lewis, a civilian employee for the detective bureau and a part-time reserve officer. Ms. Lewis found the abandoned truck herself after it was used in a July 6 robbery. Officers found it a few hours after it was used in a bank robbery Wednesday. If the last robbery wasn't enough, it also got a paint job. A dye package planted in the stolen cash exploded inside the truck's cab, painting it red."	" A General Motors Corp. subsidiary will buy an insurance holding company subsidiary of Xerox Financial Services for an undisclosed sum, the companies said Friday. Motors Insurance Corp., a subsidiary of GM's General Motors Acceptance Corp. unit, will acquire NAVCO Corp., a subsidiary of Xerox's Crum and Forster Inc. organization, the companies said. The deal faces regulatory approval and a vote from each company's board. NAVCO provides automobile insurance mainly to members of associations. It had annual premiums of about $147 million last year. Motors Insurance had revenues of $1.1 billion in 1989 and insures personal and commercial coverages and plans. Crum and Forster, based in Basking Ridge, N.J., also said it wants to sell its Viking Insurance Co. of Wisconsin. That company provides personal automobile insurance."	" A federal appeals court today extended the midnight deadline for the government's illegal alien amnesty program in New York state, giving many aliens with U.S.-born children on welfare another two weeks to register. The state has been seeking a 60-day extension and the court's order will apply until another hearing the week of May 16, said Chris Braithwaite, a spokesman for the state attorney general's office. The amnesty program allows illegal aliens who have lived in the United States since Jan. 1, 1982, to apply for legal status and U.S. citizenship. The deadline runs out at midnight tonight, but New York state asked for the extension because there was initial confusion about the program's application to parents of U.S.-born children on welfare. The order by the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals applies only to the illegal alien program in New York state. It was not immediately determined whether it would apply to all aliens or only those with U.S.-born children. The Immigration and Naturalization Service urged those eligible for legalization to apply by midnight tonight ``as it is not clear what the impact of this order may be.'' The court told lawyers for the state and the INS to work out specifics of the order, including which illegal aliens would be affected, Braithwaite said. If the sides could not agree on an order this afternoon the court said it would issue its own order, he said. Greg Leo, an INS spokesman in Washington, said he understood that any order ``will only apply to a limited class of people ... who may be ineligible for amnesty because their children have received AFDC benefits.'' The action may only affect several hundred people in New York, Leo said. The issue arose because aliens who are likely to need public assistance, such as welfare, are among those who cannot be accepted in the amnesty program. The state asked whether poor illegal aliens with U.S.-born children who receive welfare in the Aid to Families with Dependent Children program can qualify for amnesty. Technically the children are the welfare recipients, because they are U.S. citizens. Braithwaite said there are ``a lot'' of such families, but he had no count. The INS initially said the parents of such children would not be eligible, then said they would be eligible, Braithwaite said. Because of the confusion, the state sued the INS for a 60-day extension of the deadline and a $100,000 advertising campaign explaining the policy. Leo cautioned that illegal aliens not involved in the litigation should apply by tonight's midnight deadline. ``INS strongly urges anyone eligible for amnesty to apply by midnight tonight as this is the deadline for virtually all potential applicants,'' he said. ``It would be tragic for people who are eligible for this program not to come forward by midnight on the basis of misinformation.''"	" President Bush's 1991 defense budget could be cut nearly $6 billion through reductions including Star Wars spending and delaying a plan to put MX nuclear missiles on rail cars, the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee said Friday. Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., called for a military budget of $297 billion to $298 billion for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1. Bush wants a $303 billion budget, including an additional $1 billion for the Strategic Defense Initiative, commonly known as Star Wars. ``Assuming SDI is redirected into a coherent and rational research program, I believe it should be funded at roughly the current appropriated level,'' Nunn said in a speech on the Senate floor. Congress approved about $3.8 billion for the anti-missile shield in 1990's $296 billion defense budget. The SDI total marked the first reduction in the program in six years. Nunn's overall budget proposal is about $1.5 billion more than the cut adopted Thursday by the House Budget Committee and some $6 billion higher than the figure suggested by Senate Budget Committee chairman Sen. James Sasser, D-Tenn. ``I think the fight will be to try to keep defense even at the levels I'm talking about,'' Nunn said. He projected defense savings of about $3 billion to $3.5 billion this year from the changes in the strategic programs and between $20 billion and $30 billion over the next five years. Nunn's comments on the budget were the first by the powerful chairman of the Armed Services Committee. He is the leading defense expert among conservative Democrats. Elsewhere on Capitol Hill, White House budget director Richard Darman dismissed all Democratic defense proposals and argued that lawmakers' affection for pet defense project in their districts will prevail over the cuts. ``As it gets much more clear what it means for particular congressmen's districts, you'll see the political system, independent of defense strategy, start to put a bottom on that defense cut,'' Darman said. Nunn called his budget range a ``realistic and responsible target.'' He said there should be a delay in placing multiple-warhead MX missiles on railroad cars and criticized the purchase of trains while the Pentagan is still conducting tests. The Bush budget calls for $2.2 billion to put 50 MX missiles on rail cars. Sens. Carl Levin, D-Mich., and James Jeffords, R-Vt., introduced legislation Friday that would cut $1.6 billion of the administration proposal for the MX. That total represents all the procurement and military construction funds in Bush's budget for MX. ``The MX rail-garrison funding plan is a classic example of the flawed `buy before you fly' policy that has cost the country so much money in recent years,'' Levin said in a speech on the Senate floor. Nunn reiterated his support for the single-warhead Midgetman missile, but suggested deployment in existing silos with mobile launchers a later option. He repeated his opposition to development of a new short-range nuclear missile in Europe and questioned buying a new Trident submarine each year and Trident D-5 missiles with nuclear warheads in short supply. Nunn reserved comment on the B-2 stealth bomber until after Defense Secretary Dick Cheney briefs members of Congress on the Pentagon's review of major aircraft programs. However, Nunn said the B-2 program of 132 planes at a cost of $72 billion ``must be made more affordable.'' Nunn called for slashing Bush's defense budget authority to $289 billion to $291 billion, about $18 billion less than the president has proposed for fiscal 1991. Because budget authority represents the amount that can be spent over several years _ such as in a long-term contract to purchase warships _ the cut would force reductions in future Pentagon spending plans."	" A jury has convicted two Navajos in the shooting and burning deaths of two tribal police officers, but couldn't agree on a verdict for a third defendant, who now faces a murder retrial. The federal jury on Tuesday found Thomas Cly, 22, and Vinton Bedoni, 31, guilty of two counts of first-degree murder and two counts of using a firearm in the December killings. Prosecutors said they would seek a new murder trial for the third defendant, Ben Atene Jr. Atene, 22, must be retried within 70 days under federal speedy trial rules. He was being held without bail in the Salt Lake County Jail. ``The people on the (Navajo) reservation were watching to see whether white man's justice worked,'' said U.S. Attorney Brent Ward, who added he had ``never been so pleased'' with a case since taking his post. Ward said Atene's next trial might be aided by more witnesses, who, in light of the two convictions, might admit to being at the murder scene. U.S. District Judge Thomas Greene set sentencing for Cly and Bedoni for Oct. 3. The first-degree murder charges each carry a possible life sentence and the weapons charges carry five years. The jury deliberated 48 hours before convicting Cly and Bedoni. Greene then ordered the jurors to continue deliberations for Atene. When they were unable to come to a decision 90 minutes later, Greene declared a mistrial in Atene's case. Greene denied a defense request to acquit Atene. First-degree murder charges were dismissed July 22 against Atene's 22-year-old brother, Marques Atene, when prosecutors acknowledged they didn't have enough evidence for a conviction. The defendants were charged in the slayings of officers Roy Lee Stanley and Andy Begay, whose charred bodies were found Dec. 5 inside a burned-out police truck in a remote southern Utah canyon. During the trial, prosecution witnesses testified that the officers were shot at the scene of a bonfire and drinking party on the night of Dec. 4. Alcohol is illegal on the reservation. Defense attorney Robert VanSciver said he planned to discuss the possibility of appeal with his client, Bedoni. Attorney Ed Brass said he was certain Cly would challenge his conviction. The verdict brought relief and sadness to Marie Holiday, whose brother was Stanley. ``I've been thinking about my brother Roy all during this trial,'' she said. ``I kept thinking about him, so I have this mixed feeling and I don't know how to describe it.'' The killings have divided the community of about 2,000 Navajos living in Monument Valley in southeastern Utah, she said, and she and her family have been ostracized by many of their neighbors. ``They all wept with us when my brother died, but then when these people were arrested for it, they all turned the other way,'' she said."	" People in other countries have invested $1.5 trillion in the United States and withdrawals could bring a recession, a former top Treasury official says. C. Fred Bergsten, who now heads the Institute for International Economics, a study group financed largely by the West German Marshall Fund, issued the warning on Wednesday. Bergsten said the investment by other countries in the United States is in private hands. ``Some of it's in the form of plant and equipment _ that's not going to come out rapidly,'' he told the House Budget Committee. ``But close to a trillion dollars of it is liquid, and about half a trillion has come in just the last five years to finance our massive trade deficits. ``On future occasions, if foreigners withdrew money, the effect on interest rates, our economy, the exchange rate, could be much more dramatic.'' It has happened before, he said. ``The last time the dollar fell sharply _ I happen to remember painfully because I was in the Treasury at the time _ was in the late 1970s,'' he added. He was then assistant secretary of the Treasury for international affairs. He recalled that the United States had to borrow about twice the amount of its trade deficit because foreigners were withdrawing money at the same time. ``If we got anything like that magnitude now, we'd have to find a way to borrow $300 billion from foreign officials or somewhere to keep our books in balance,'' he said. ``That could only be done at prices that would bring the whole economy to a shuddering halt.'' He said the most enduring legacy of the Reagan administration would be the conversion of the United States from the world's biggest creditor country to the biggest debtor. Current foreign borrowing by the U.S. government is about $150 billion a year. ``At the end of 1987, our net international debt stood at about $400 billion, more than the external red ink of the next three largest debtors _ Canada, Brazil and Mexico _ combined,'' he said. ``Under the most optimistic adjustment scenario, that number will rise to $750 billion before it could possibly level off, and a more likely outcome is much closer to $1 trillion.'' Bergsten said the United States needs to shift its annual international trade balance by about $200 billion, more than the current deficit, because the additional cost of interest on the foreign debt will be close to $50 billion by the early 1990s. It would be reasonable to try to reach this target in four or five years, he said. He said it can be done only by cutting the federal budget deficit by $150 to $200 billion in the same period. He added that unless these cuts can be made, the value of the dollar against other currencies could easily fall by another 20 percent or 30 percent."	" A new generation of skyscrapers is about to alter the skyline of Atlanta, previously dismissed as sterile and nondescript. Even homegrown architect John Portman, whose glass towers and soaring atriums for years defined Atlanta and who in the past criticized post-modern architecture as a step backward, has given a nod to the style in his latest project, a 60-story office building planned for downtown Atlanta. Much of the excitement over the pending transformation of the capital of the New South started last fall with the opening of the 50-story IBM building. Officially called One Atlantic Center, it is a slender, post-modern tower of stone with tall arched entryways and Gothic finials, dramatically crowned by a 100-foot-high, eight-sided copper pyramid topped by a golden lantern. Rush-hour traffic on Interstate 85 slows to a cautious crawl as drivers gaze its way. At night, the lights in its crown command attention from all over town. Architecture writers have used words like ``gracious,'' ``truly wonderful,'' ``serene,'' ``imposing'' and ``glamorous'' to describe the tower. ``It certainly projects a vibrance to the rest of the world,'' said Roy Cooper, vice president for economic development with the Atlanta Chamber of Commerce. ``It's just beautiful. Everybody's just staggered by it.'' The tower is a dramatic departure from the glass boxes common in modern architecture and contrasts with the sleek look of most of the city's tallest buildings. Its influence shows up in at least three other skyscrapers going up in Atlanta, and the design of the proposed Promenade skyscraper complex was altered to complement the rose-colored IBM tower. New York architect John Burgee, whose firm designed the IBM building with design consultant Philip Johnson, won't take credit for transforming Atlanta's skyline. But he said the city's image, as defined by the way it looks, is undergoing a change. ``Atlanta has been looking for its identity,'' Burgee said in a telephone interview from his New York office. ``It's an historical city (but) its architecture and image is not strictly historical. You think of Atlanta and you think of `Gone With The Wind.' Now, there is an attempt to come up with a visual image. ``We all know Peachtree Street, but you don't think of its buildings,'' he said. ``Like in New York, the Empire State Building; Chicago, the Sears building; San Francisco, the TransAmerica building. Atlanta doesn't have that. It's moving toward that, very definitely.'' Burgee and Johnson also are behind One Ninety One Peachtree Tower, a post-modern skyscraper planned for downtown Atlanta. Another planned project grouped in the ``Son of IBM'' building spurt is the Promenade in the tree-lined, historic Midtown section, a complex of three office buildings and a hotel being developed by AT&T and the Atlanta-based Landmarks Group. When unveiled last year, it was designed with an exterior of glittering green glass. But when Promenade officials saw the excitement over the nearby IBM Tower, its architects, Thompson, Ventulett & Stainback, redrew the plans to use rose glass above rose-toned stone and topped with a gray steel spire. The most recently announced skyscraper is a downtown giant by Portman, whose imprint is already deeply felt in Atlanta, primarily through the Peachtree Center and the towering cylindrical Westin Peachtree Plaza Hotel. Portman's new building is slated to begin construction next year and, at 60 stories, will eclipse One Atlantic as the Southeast's tallest building. Unveiling the design in May, Portman said it was ``respectful of the past but, like this city, is audacious and bold and forward-looking _ the beginning of post-post-modern architecture.'' Dale Durfee, a professor of architecture at Georgia Tech, said completion of the IBM tower signaled the acceleration of a change in the look of the city that began a decade ago. ``Atlanta was pretty much plain vanilla,'' he said, ``with no development of architectural significance.'' Burgee echoed that appraisal, saying, ``It was pretty nondescript. It might be anyplace. If they took you (to Atlanta) blindfolded and took off the blindfold, you wouldn't have a clue where you are.'' Durfee said that 10 years ago, Atlanta was groping to form an identity and had no demand for the type of buildings now are going up. Today, however, companies want sophistication in their office buildings, Durfee said, and corporate sponsorship of building projects has changed the rules of skyscraper financing. Some say that all the building activity simply makes good business sense. ``Sure, there's competitive prestige. Good architecture is good business,'' said Truman Hartshorn, chairman of the geography department at Georgia State University and a specialist in urban affairs. A good-looking building, he said, ``is easier to sell to the financing people as well as the tenants.'' Hartshorn said he expects the new projects in Atlanta will bring special recognition. ``I think it's going to open some eyes,'' he said. ``We have prestige with our cultural buildings, but I don't know that our office buildings are that distinctive nationally. ``These aren't just ultra post-modern. They're classic. They're different.''"	" GTE Corp. is cutting back in the expensive and competitive business of building telephone network switches by turning over 49 percent of its operation to American Telephone & Telegraph Co. GTE will own 51 percent of a joint venture with AT&T, then reduce its ownership to 20 percent after five years and zero after 15 years, under an agreement in principle announced by the companies Wednesday. The venture will consist of GTE's network switching business, which employs about 2,000 workers in the Phoenix, Ariz., area and about 3,000 in factories in the Chicago suburbs of Northlake and Genoa, Ill. AT&T will give the joint venture licenses to use some of AT&T's own advanced switching technology. It will continue to run its own network switching business independently of the joint venture. AT&T dominates the U.S. market for network switches, which are basically computers installed in the central offices of phone companies that are loaded with complex software to handle high-tech communications. The newest switches are being upgraded at enormous expense to handle simultaneous transmission of voices, computer data, video signals and other information over the same circuits. The deal eases GTE out of a costly business where it has been an also-ran with about 10 percent of the market, consisting mainly of the GTE local phone companies, said John Bain, an analyst for Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. Financial arrangements were not disclosed, but since GTE's contribution is substantially larger it is reasonable to assume that AT&T will be making some kind of payment to GTE, GTE spokesman Thomas Mattausch said. GTE's customers should benefit because the joint venture will work on enhancing GTE switches using the latest in AT&T technology, the companies said. The companies' switches happen to be similar, so there is plenty of room for sharing of technology, Mattausch said. In the long term, AT&T is likely to steer GTE customers toward AT&T switches, Bain predicted. GTE has reduced its involvement in other parts of the communications equipment business in recent years by entering joint ventures with West Germany's Siemens AG and Japan's Fujitsu Ltd. ITT Corp., following a similar pattern, reduced its involvement in the network switching business at the end of 1986 by placing its telecommunications equipment business in a European-based joint venture with France's Compagnie Generale d'Electricite."	" Democratic vice presidential candidate Lloyd Bentsen is aiming his pitch at Democrats who strayed from the party to vote for Ronald Reagan as he tours his home state on behalf of the Democratic ticket. Although confident of his own popularity in Texas, Bentsen has to persuade some of his more conservative state supporters to vote for Michael Dukakis if Democrats are to win the state's 29 electoral votes. Bentsen on Wednesday appealed to those voters both in public and in private, as he traveled from the city of Fort Worth to the ranching area of San Angelo to a medical center in Lubbock to the oil town of Tyler. ``I know that this county is principally Republican,'' Bentsen told the 250 people gathered for a picnic at Fort Concho in San Angelo. ``I also know that Lloyd Bentsen carried this county by 58 percent last time.'' He told them that Dukakis' selection of a Texan for the ticket showed the Massachusetts governor was ``reaching out ... ready to listen to differing viewpoints.'' He then traveled to Lubbock, where he was greeted at the airport by a dozen supporters carrying ``Bentsen _ U.S. Senator'' placards _ but none of the Dukakis-Bentsen signs he'd like to see. He attended a demonstration of a new program to diagnose rural patients via television at the Texas Tech medical center, and then slipped away to meet with some 200 to 300 longtime supporters of his Senate campaigns to make his pitch in private. The meeting was closed to the press. Later, in Tyler, he met with another support group _ again out of the view of reporters. And again, Bentsen's Senate paraphernalia was in abundance but nothing for the Dukakis-Bentsen ticket. Robert Cargill of nearby Longview, one of those invited for the dinner sponsored by East Texans for Texas, said Dukakis' addition of Bentsen to the ticket might be enough for him to support it. ``Maybe,'' he said. Bentsen is also explaining to his constituents, both in his appearances and through television ads, why he is running at the same time for re-election to his Senate seat. Texas law allows him to do that, and if he didn't his Republican opponent, Rep. Beau Boulter, would automatically win a six-year term. If he won both races, Bentsen could resign from the Senate and force a special election, giving the Democrats a chance to hold the seat. As he traveled, Bentsen was peppered with questions about his personal wealth and his health, as a result of the release of records Monday by his Washington office. The disclosures showed the 67-year-old senator is in good health, although he has been treated for high cholesterol. His financial records revealed he has earned more than $3.8 million over the past five years, but they don't disclose his net worth. ``I don't know what my net worth is,'' he said. ``Frankly, I haven't made out a financial statement that has given me my net worth in a number of years.'' As he's been hunting for conservative votes, Bentsen also has been taking some shots at Republican George Bush's choice for a running mate, Indiana Sen. Dan Quayle. ``I guess we'll have an early season on quail,'' he told reporters. Bentsen brushed aside the age difference between him and the 41-year-old Quayle. ``It's not the miles on you, it's the depth of the tread,'' he said."	" Coal mine owners are generally pleased with a Supreme Court ruling shielding them and their insurance companies from paying up to $13.6 billion in additional black lung benefits but an attorney for miners claimed a partial victory. The justices ruled 9-0 on Tuesday that a group of miners estimated to number between 94,000 and 155,000 is ineligible to seek disability benefits for the disease. The group consists of those who missed deadlines for filing court appeals after they were denied benefits. Mark Solomons, a lawyer representing the mine operators, said, ``The industry is going to be pleased.'' But Solomons said a second part of the Supreme Court's ruling will spur additional litigation for a smaller number of miners hoping to receive benefits. In that section, the justices voted 5-4 to permit some miners who worked less than 10 years in the mines to seek disability pay for black lung disease, or pneumoconiosis, a respiratory ailment caused by prolonged inhaling of coal dust. Between 8,000 and 10,000 miners with pending claims could be in line to receive hundreds of millions of dollars in benefits under that part of the high court decision. The court said even if miners have less than 10 years on the job, they are presumed to be eligible for benefits if they display medical evidence of the disease. Paul Smith, a lawyer representing miners, said the ruling is a significant _ if only partial _ victory for the workers. ``The presumption makes a big difference,'' he said, because it shifts the burden of proof to the government to deny such claims. ``It's very difficult to prove you are disabled by black lung disease,'' he said. Congress created a special industry-supported fund to pay off claims by miners with the disease. Coal mine operators already owe the fund some $3 billion that was lent to it by the federal treasury. The Reagan administration had urged the justices to deny the claims of miners who had missed earlier filing deadlines. Justice Antonin Scalia, writing for the court, said nothing in federal law requires the government to reopen settled claims. ``There is not even a colorable basis for the contention that Congress has imposed a duty to reconsider finally determined claims,'' he said. But Scalia said Congress also never intended to exclude from benefit eligibility miners who worked less than 10 years. ``We do not sit to determine what Congress ought to have done given the evidence before it, but to apply what Congress enacted _ and ... the exclusion of short-term miners from the benefits ... finds no support'' in a 1977 law aimed at making it easier for miners to seek benefits, Scalia said. The high court overturned a ruling by the 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals that had ordered the Labor Department to take a fresh look at claims that were denied in the late 1970s and early 1980s. The appeals court had directed the department to use the liberalized standards adopted by Congress in 1977 to determine benefit eligibility for a group numbering from 94,000 to 155,000. The cases involved potential benefits estimated at $13.6 billion. In other cases, the court: _Threw out an appeal by an unwed California father seeking to restore a parental relationship with his 7-year-old daughter. Eight days after hearing arguments in Edward McNamara's case, the court dismissed the appeal for procedural reasons and left unanswered whether unwed fathers have the same parental rights as unwed mothers. _Ruled unanimously that federal employees holding sensitive intelligence-agency jobs are not entitled to administrative hearings when fired as security risks. The justices reversed a ruling requiring a hearing for a National Security Agency employee who says he was dismissed for homosexual activities."	" President Bush complained testily Thursday about news accounts which he said portrayed him as deceptive, declaring he would hold fewer news conferences and initiate a ``new approach'' toward reporters. ``From now on, it's going to be a little different. ... So we've got a new relationship,'' Bush told reporters traveling with him aboard Air Force One to the four-nation Colombia drug summit. ``It will be pleasant. It will be fun. But it's different,'' said the president, who has averaged one question and answer session with reporters each week since taking office 13 months ago. Later, Bush's press secretary, Marlin Fitzwater, said the president was ``just kidding'' in asserting that he would have fewer news conferences and in declining comment on a series of questions. ``He was having fun,'' Fitzwater said. The president, who apparently read a wire service account of his testy mood on the plane, protested to reporters later: ``I'm not fuming.'' Bush's pique apparently was triggered by an ABC-TV report Wednesday night recapping instances in which Bush's words were belied by subsequent events. The president was criticized on the same score in a Feb. 26 article in The New Republic entitled, ``The Deceiving Line.'' Most recently Bush told a news conference on Monday that it wasn't time yet for a conference among the United States, the Soviet Union, Britain and France on the future status of Germany. ``Not at this juncture,'' he told the news conference. Yet, the next day, a major agreement was announced in Ottawa by Secretary of State James A. Baker III on a German reunification push that would include a summit among the four powers that vanquished Germany in World War II. ``When I told you ... that I didn't think there'd be a deal and there shortly was a deal, then I'm hit for deceiving you,'' Bush groused Thursday. Bush, a onetime CIA director, has conducted much of his foreign policy in secrecy. Two missions to China by national security adviser Brent Scowcroft came despite a Bush announcement in the aftermath of the Tiananmen Square crackdown that he was barring high-level exchanges between the two countries. The president later insisted that Scowcroft's trips to Beijing were ``visits'' and not ``exchanges,'' and thus not covered by the Bush edict. Bush, who usually maintains a bantering relationship with reporters, said, ``I think we've had too many press conferences. It overdoes it. It's overexposure.'' By answering few questions directly, he said, ``I'm not going to be burned for holding out or doing something deceptive.'' The president, who slept the night before on Air Force One so he would be well-rested for Thursday's pre-dawn flight here, even gave a prickly response when asked if he had gotten a good night's sleep. ``I had a very good night's sleep. I can't get into the details of that because some will say it's too much sleep, some will say it's too little. ...,'' he said. Bush parried a series of questions from reporters, most of them dealing with the drug summit. ``I'm not going to discuss what I'm going to bring up,'' Bush said when asked about his agenda for the day's conference in Cartagena with the presidents of Colombia, Peru and Bolivia. ``I'm not going to discuss whether there's any surprises or not. This is a new thing. This is a new approach.'' He then said his non-answers were ``a trial run'' for later dealings with the media. In fact, Bush, who answers reporters questions about once a week, planned to finish his day in Colombia with yet another news conference. Bush's comments with reporters came shortly before his jet touched down here, where a U.S. press center was set up at the airport. Bush flew by helicopter the 60 miles to Cartagena and was returning here before flying home to Washington. Asked about an NBC-TV report that Colombian President Virgilio Barco had made a deal with some drug lords in his country not to extradite them to the United States if they turned over drug labs, Bush snapped: ``I have no comment whatsoever on that. I have no comment on whether I know about it or not. I can't comment on whether it's true or not.'' Bush did not mention which particular news reports had irked him the most. However, Thursday's editions of the Washington Post had a story on what it called ``the debate between President Bush and the press over secrecy and deception.'' And ABC-TV had a news report on Wednesday night by White House correspondent Brit Hume on the same subject. Hume was one of several reporters invited to a recent off the record lunch at the White House with Bush, at which the subject reportedly came up. News accounts said that Bush told the reporters at the lunch that he had undertaken no further secret diplomatic missions _ like Scowcroft's clandestine visits to China. Then, the next day, it was disclosed that Deputy Secretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger had gone on a secret mission to London to notify U.S. allies of Bush's latest plan to reduce troops in Europe. Bush also gave what some have seen as misleading comments on his surprise seaside summit at Malta in December with Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev. The president in September had said that there were no plans for a superpower summit before 1990, but he later revealed that the session had been arranged as early as last July."	" A gunman who infiltrated from Egypt sprayed four Israeli vehicles with assault rifle fire Sunday, killing four people and wounding 24, the army said. The army said the lone gunman killed three Israeli army soldiers and a civilian driver for the national Egged bus company on the Israeli-Egyptian border, about 15 miles northwest of the Israeli Red Sea resort of Eilat. The gunman escaped back into Egypt. A senior Egyptian security source said an Egyptian border policeman assigned to the area of the attack had been arrested as the suspected assailant. Earlier reports from Cairo said the gunman had fired from the Egyptian side of the border. In Amman, Jordan a fundamentalist Islamic group Sunday claimed responsibility for the attack. The extremist Islamic Jihad-Beit Al-Maqdes, or Islamic Holy War-Jersualem, said the attack was carried out by ``one of our units operating in the land of Arabism and Islam, the land of Egypt.'' Defense Minister Moshe Arens called the attack ``a most serious incident'' and said Israel expected Egypt to take all the necessary steps to prevent such assaults. A military commander identified only as Brig. Gen. D. said on army radio that an Egyptian man ``whose identity is not clear to us at this moment'' infiltrated into Israel at the distance of about 300 yards from the scene of the shooting. ``He entered a dry riverbed, reached the road and lay in wait on the roadside,'' the commander said. The assailant opened fire on an army van, containing just the driver, who was injured but carried on for a few hundred yards and stopped. Another military car, also containing only one person and heading from Eilat to a nearby base, was hit by several bullets. The soldier inside was mortally wounded, drove for a few hundred yards and died, the commander said. Next came a military bus. The driver thought there had been an accident and stopped. He got out with his weapon but was shot dead ``at very close range'' before he could fire back. Finally, the attacker fired on an Egged bus carrying civilians working at military installations in the area. He wounded a security guard, who shot back, hitting the assailant. ``We found signs of blood showing that he was hit. I think this prevented a heavier tragedy,'' the commander said. ``The terrorist apparently intended to board the bus and take it over. He (the guard) did not let him come on board. He climbed down through the door and shot him, and from that moment the terrorist began running away.'' Reporters at the scene saw a red and white passenger bus with its windshield covered with bullet holes. Police forensic experts were seen picking up bullets around the bus. Isaac Bar-Moshe, press officer at the Israeli Embassy in Cairo, said the gunman had used a Soviet-made Kalashnikov semiautomatic rifle. If the attack was indeed committed by a member of Egypt's uniformed forces, it would be the second. On Oct. 5, 1985, an Egyptian border police officer went berserk and shot dead four Israeli children, two women and an elderly man near the border in the Sinai Desert. Before Sunday, the latest attack on an Israeli target in Egypt was on Feb. 4, when gunmen ambushed a tour bus, killing nine Israeli vacationers. The attack took place on a desert road between Cairo and the Suez Canal city of Ismailiya. Egypt is the only Arab state to have a peace treaty with Israel. After the treaty was signed in 1979, Israel began withdrawing from the Egyptian Sinai peninsula, which it occupied in 1967. Between 1984 and 1987, two Israeli diplomats and six Israelis were wounded in Cairo in a number of attacks claimed by an Egyptian terrorist organization, Egypt's Revolution."	" National Broadcasting Co. has decided against buying the cable channel Tempo Television for its proposed business news service but plans instead to lease time on the channel for the new programming. The General Electric Co. unit, which owns the NBC Television Network, cited tax considerations for its change in strategy. Buying the cable channel was seen as part of NBC President Robert Wright's oft-stated plans to broaden the broadcasting concern's business base. NBC announced last month it had signed a letter of intent to buy Tempo Television, and would use it for new business news and sports programming. Tempo Television, a unit of Tempo Enterprises Inc. of Tulsa, Okla., currently provides outdoors, travel and informational programming to about 12 million subscribers. NBC had planned to acquire the channel from Telecommunications Inc., a Denver-based cable operator which is in the process of buying Tempo Enterprises in a deal expected to close in the third quarter. On Thursday, NBC and Telecommunications said they were restructuring their plans to minimize ``tax and other complications that arose from trying to separate Tempo Television from its parent, Tempo Enterprises.'' Under the new plan, the companies said NBC would lease time on Tempo Television for a business news service that would run from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m. weekdays, starting in early 1989. ``Under the new arrangement, NBC will still own and manage the business news service, but will reach existing Tempo TV subscribers without actually purchasing Tempo TV,'' the announcement said. It said that Tempo Television would try to help the business news service succeed by paying the first year's affiliation fee on behalf of all current Tempo TV affiliates who continue to carry Tempo fulltime after the launch of the business news service. John Draper, a spokesman for Telecommunications, said the new arrangement ``gives NBC the same thing that they were after'' when it planned to buy the cable channel _ access to a large base of subscribers. He declined to specify how much NBC would pay for the lease. It had been reported that NBC had agreed to pay about $20 million to buy the channel. The statement did not indicate what the new plans were for introduction of the proposed sports programing that NBC previously said it would put on the cable channel. John Malone, president of Telecommunications, said in the statement that his company will ``continue to explore with NBC the best format for sports and other possible programming for a prime time and weekend service.'' Thomas S. Rogers, the NBC executive overseeing the Tempo deal, was unavailable for comment. But Joseph Rutledge, an NBC spokesman, said today that the change to a lease arrangement posed no obstacle to NBC accomplishing what it set out to do. ``Some people choose to lease a car. Some people choose to buy a car. Both people end up with transportation. We are ending up with the very outcome we sought,'' he said. The new arrangement will give NBC access to cable subscribers, a solid relationship with Telecommunications, which is the nation's biggest cable operator, and an opportunity to develop two new programming services for cable TV, Rutledge said. He said that NBC continues to talk with cable operators about what they would like to see in a sports service and that NBC hopes to begin developing sports programming for cable TV soon after the business news service goes on the air. Wright was quoted in the statement as saying, ``The cable industry has been very encouraging and we are enthusiastic about our plans going forward.''"	" Iraq has accepted President Bush's offer to hold talks on the Persian Gulf crisis, the State Department said today. ``We are engaged with them on dates and arrangements for the two meetings,'' the department said. Bush had proposed that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein send his foreign minister, Tariq Aziz, to Washington. Then, Bush said in making the offer last Friday, Secretary of State James A. Baker III would go to Baghdad. In Buenos Aires, Argentina, today, Bush said any talks would be mandated by U.N. Security Council resolutions that have been adopted since the crisis began. ``That means no concession of territory. That means freedom of innocent people that are held against their will. ... And that means the eventual security and stability of the gulf, although that's not specified by the resolution,'' Bush said. His comments came before the State Department announced that Iraq had accepted the offer to hold talks. Earlier today, Baker told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that he would not negotiate with Saddam on the trip and added a new warning: ``If force must be used, it will be used suddenly, massively and decisively.'' He said his meeting in Baghdad ``will not be the beginning of a negotation over the terms of the United Nations resolutions.'' Nor, Baker said, would he negotiate on subjects ``unrelated'' to the Iraqi occupation of Kuwait. ``I will not be negotiating the Palestinian question or the civil war in Lebanon,'' he said. ``Saddam did not invade Kuwait to help the Palestinians. He did it for his own self-aggrandizement.'' Saddam had said earlier that the Palestinian problem must be on the agenda in any dialogue with Baker. Joe Wilson, the deputy ambassador in Iraq, was called in by the Iraqi foreign minister to be told of Iraq's acceptance of the offer, the announcement said. Wilson and a number of other U.S. officials remain in the U.S. Embassy in Baghadad. Bush made last week's unexpected overture at a presidential news conference in Washington. It followed mounting complaints in Congress that the administration was rushing into war with Iraq over its invasion of Kuwait without giving diplmacy enough time for the pursuit of a peaceful settlement. Even so, Bush pledged the administration would not waver from the resolution approved last Thursday by the U.N. Security Council threatening a forceful eviction of Iraqi troops if they did not withdraw by Jan. 15. Sen. Paul Simon, D-Ill., urged Baker at today's hearing to provide Saddam Hussein with ``a way out'' of the crisis. He suggested one approach would be to propose the World Court resolve Iraq's territorial claims against Kuwait. ``If at all possible, make that a meaningful trip,'' Simon urged. Baker stressed that the U.N. resolution did not require the United States to attack Jan. 15 or a day after. Without elaboration, Baker said diplomatic steps were being taken in the search for a peaceful solution. However, Baker insisted that Iraq must withdraw from all of Kuwait, liberate all foreign hostages and permit the restoration of the ousted government. Bush, in making the offer to swap envoys, said Baker would not waver from the three demands. ``The best way to get that across is one-on-one, Baker looking him in the eye,'' Bush said."	" President Reagan joined with President Mobutu Sese Seko of Zaire in offering praise Thursday for Jonas Savimbi, the guerrilla leader trying to overthrow Angola's communist government, the White House said. During their 15-minute White House meeting, the two presidents also thanked each other for backing solutions to problems in southern Africa and Angola, where the United States has been pressing for the pullout of pro-government Cuban military forces, said White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater. The White House issued a statement later Thursday saying Reagan and Mobuto agreed to support the goal of independence for South Africa-controlled Namibia and peace and reconciliation between the Angolan government and the UNITA guerrillas in Angola. Accusations that Zaire tortures prisoners and commits other human rights abuses were not raised at the White House session, Fitzwater said. The accusations were disputed by Mobutu in a brief talk with reporters. ``You can only oppress a people if they do not have confidence in you, which is not the case in Zaire, contrary to what has been written,'' he said. Mobutu, on a private visit to the United States, said the main purpose of his White House call was to thank Reagan ``for all he has done for Zaire in the framework of the friendship and solidarity which exists between our two countries.'' He also congratulated Reagan ``for the successes he had during the Moscow summit .. he has given a glimmer of hope to all of humanity.'' The Zairean president was also meeting with U.S. Treasury Secretary James Banker and with officials of the World Bank, which last year granted his country an $80 million loan."	" The Pittsburgh Cancer Institute has started human testing of a treatment that doctors hope will enhance the body's ability to fight cancer and maybe dissolve malignant tumors. Two patients at the center were the first people to receive the treatment, in vitro sensitization or IVS, which previously had been tested only on mice, The Pittsburgh Press reported Sunday. Studies have shown the process fights remaining tumor cells in mice, the newspaper said. In some cases, the animals' cancer has been eliminated entirely. Researchers say it is too soon to tell what effect the treatment has had on the two patients. Their patients' identity and the type of cancer they had were not disclosed. The tests began in June. ``I have no question but that at some point in the intermediate-term future, this will be of therapeutic benefit,'' said Dr. John M. Kirkwood, one of two principal investigators in the study. Dr. Norman Wolmark, the other lead investigator, said the information gathered in the study should be useful in pointing the way even if there is no immediate effect on the two patients' tumors. ``I think the treatment can be modified in the hope that a successful tumor response will result,'' he said. In vitro sensitization involves removing a tumor and irradiating it to inactivate the tumor cells, researchers told The Press. The cells are combined with a bacterium commonly used to vaccinate against tuberculosis in order to stimulate the patient's immune system. The patient then is injected with the irradiated cells to produce sensitized lymphocytes, or cells critical to the body's natural defense against disease and infection, researchers said. Other steps in the complex treatment involve the use of the tumor-fighting hormone interleukin-2. Researchers told the Press it may be two years or more before enough patients are treated for a sufficient amount of time to know the effectiveness of the treatment. The groundwork for the treatment was begun more than five years ago at the National Cancer Institute in Washington by research scientist Suyu Shu. In 1986, Shu moved to the Pittsburgh Cancer Institute, which is affiliated with the University of Pittsburgh, where he continued his laboratory work with mice. He recently left for the University of Michigan. Shu's approach, called adoptive cellular immunotheraphy, is not a widely used approach to cancer research. Most tumors are not recognized or only weakly recognized by the body's immune system and therefore continue growing because the immune system does little to attack them, said Dr. Ronald Herberman, director of the Pittsburgh Cancer Institute. ``This is basically the main reason there has not been great emphasis'' in research to enhance the immune system, he told the newspaper. Herberman said researchers, ideally, would ``like to see some almost immediate shrinkage of the tumor. But it may not happen that way.'' ``It's a tall order to expect this kind of treatment would actually make a large tumor melt away,'' he said."	" Thirty years ago today, predominantly Protestant West Virginia said yes to a Catholic and played a pivotal role in the making of a president. When John F. Kennedy routed Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey in the state's Democratic primary on May 10, 1960, he put to rest the notion that a Catholic couldn't be president, experts said. ``It propelled John Kennedy to the nomination and undermined the religious issue,'' said West Virginia Wesleyan professor Robert Rupp, who is organizing a symposium Wednesday to discuss the role of religion, the media and campaign techniques in what he calls ``The Primary That Made a President.'' ``The West Virginia primary really was the difference in John Kennedy's success or defeat,'' said Ted Sorensen, Kennedy's former speechwriter. ``Given the handicap of his religion and to some extent the handicap of his age, he knew he would not be the choice of bosses in the back rooms. He had to win in the primaries and, above all, he had to win in Protestant areas,'' Sorensen said Wednesday. Kennedy's advisers expected the worst from West Virginia, about 90 percent Protestant at the time, although Kennedy had won five of nine earlier primaries. Kennedy beat Humphrey in West Virginia, 236,510 votes to 152,187. Although the vote made political history, West Virginia's people and the grinding, inescapable poverty some of them lived in made a lasting impression on the scion of a wealthy Massachusetts family. ``He had seen poverty before,'' Sorensen said. ``But the long-term hardship faced by many of the people he met in West Virginia, the look on their face and the stories they told made a very deep impression on him. It wasn't a theory any longer.'' Kennedy spent more time campaigning in West Virginia than anywhere else. His advisers, supporters and family members hit every chicken dinner, student rally and ladies' auxiliary meeting they could. ``It was an exhausting campaign. We went to every hill and hollow,'' Sorensen said. When he was asked about his Catholicism, Kennedy's standard response was to talk about his family's military service, a vote-swaying appeal in a state with a high percentage of soldiers, sailors and airmen. ``He said, `Nobody asked my brother about his religion when he died for his country in World War II,''' said Charles Peters, who managed Kennedy's Kanawha County effort and is now editor of the Washington Monthly. Kennedy also had Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr., son of the most popular president in West Virginia, on his side. ``That was as if God's son had said it's all right to vote for this Catholic,'' Peters said. West Virginia Secretary of State Ken Hechler, a first-term congressman at the time, was convinced Kennedy's religion would cost him the state. He changed his mind after he saw the Kennedy family in action. ``It impressed me so much that they, as a family team, knew exactly what needed to be done without any kind of chitchat,'' Hechler said. The Kennedy and Humphrey campaigns differed markedly. Kennedy chartered a plane at one point to fly to campaign stops; Humphrey rode around in a bus. Kennedy's theme song was ``High Hopes'' by Frank Sinatra; Humphrey had a folk singer. But the Kennedy high style didn't scare off the simple folk of West Virginia. Peters said he advised against bringing Jacqueline Kennedy to campaign in West Virginia. ``I thought she would come across as a snobbish, Northeast woman who would contrast unfavorably with the down-to-earth Muriel Humphrey,'' Peters said. ``Instead she was a big hit.''"	" A Findlay man sitting in a downtown restaurant was arrested Friday after someone allegedly overheard him making threatening remarks against Vice President George Bush, police said. Bush, the Republican presidential nominee, campaigned in the northwest Ohio city Friday morning. Police said Charles T. Rode Jr., 35, allegedly made threatening comments about 9 a.m., shortly before Bush's arrival. Police and Secret Service agents arrested Rode, who did not resist and was not carrying a weapon, police said. He was held until Bush left the city and then was taken to the Lucas County jail in Toledo, where he was being held without bond Friday night on a charge of threatening the vice president."	" A chain saw is useful for cleanup and maintenance of your yard and garden, but observe some basics for safe and easy operation. Solo Incorporated, which makes chain saws, has these tips: _ When starting the chain saw, place it on level ground at least 10 feet from the gas can and fueling area. Hold the saw down by placing one foot on the rear handlebar while firmly holding the front handlebar with one hand. If your saw has only a top handlebar, hold it firmly on the ground, pulling up on the starting grip. _ Hold the saw firmly with both hands, maintaining a secure grip. This will help you avoid injury from kickback. Don't overreach or cut above shoulder height, and when cutting logs, only cut one at a time. _ In bucking timber, don't stand directly behind the saw while cutting. Position yourself so you'll be away from the direction of the log roll. Hold the saw on the right side of your body (outside the line of sight across the chain) to minimize chances of injury from an unexpected broken chain or kickback. Examine the log for internal stress _ a bowed appearance is an indication _ and avoid cutting the log on the wrong side, which can result in kickback. _ To avoid kickback while limbing, make sure the log is in a secure position and work on the safest side _ usually uphill and away from the fall of cut limbs. To avoid kickback, make sure the guidebar's tip doesn't come in contact with another branch, the side of a tree, or another object. When limbing, bend your knees slightly and position your right leg behind the front carrying handlebar. The left leg should be forward and away from the guidebar's contact range. Avoid standing on limbs, slash or debris. _ Survey the area before felling a tree. Is the trunk sound or hollow and rotted? What's the wind direction and speed? Which direction is the tree leaning in? Is the tree's crown denser and heavier on one side? When you've determined the answers to these questions, figure your escape route, which should be at a 45-degee angle back from the line of the fall. When you have checked this and cleared the small limbs and branches from the bottom portion of the trunk, you're ready to fell the tree. Stand away from the tree and maintain a balanced stance. Then start by making a careful undercut. This notch, cut to a depth of a quarter-inch, will determine the line of the fall and should be positioned at a right angle to the projected fall. _ Wear protective clothing each time you use a saw. These include goggles or a face mask, snug but comfortable work clothing, cuffless long pants, hearing protection, non-slip safety gloves, and boots with steel toecaps."	" Stock prices advanced broadly this morning in early, moderate trading after the Tokyo market and other overseas exchanges regained strength. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials gained 7.66 points to 2,591.22 in the first half hour of trading. Advancing issues outnumbered losers by more than 2 to 1 in nationwide trading of New York Stock Exchange-listed issues, with 620 up, 286 down and 467 unchanged. Volume on the Big Board came to 21.87 million shares as of 10 a.m. on Wall Street. On the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the key Nikkei index rose more than 400 points in early trading, but then plunged on a wave of computer-guided selling by foreign institutions. But the Japanese market recovered as investors gradually returned and computerized buy programs kicked in. By the close, the Nikkei index gained 92.51 points, or 0.25 percent, to move to 35,826.84. On Wednesday, the Nikkei plummeted more than 3 percent for its third-worst drop ever. The plunge helped set off a tumble on Wall Street, but the U.S. markets later recovered as institutional investors took advantage of bargains. This morning, the NYSE's composite index of all its listed common stocks gained 0.30 to 181.37. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index was up 0.63 at 353.58. On Wednesday, the Dow Jones average of 30 industrials closed down 13.29 points to 2,583.56. Declining issues outnumbered advances by about 5 to 3 in nationwide trading of New York Stock Exchange-listed stocks, with 577 up, 963 down and 455 unchanged. Volume on the floor of the Big Board totaled 159.24 million shares, up from 147.30 million in the previous session."	" Stock prices eked out a small gain today as the market absorbed the news of increases in the prime lending rate. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials rose 4.98 to 2,109.35 by 3 p.m. on Wall Street. Gainers slightly outnumbered losers in the overall count of New York Stock Exchange-listed issues, with 708 up, 663 down and 545 unchanged. Many large banks across the country raised their prime lending rates today from 9 to 9.5 percent. Analysts said, however, that those moves were seen largely as a response to recent increases in open-market money rates and did not necessarily have much predictive value for the future course of rates in general. Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, said Wednesday that further increases in rates were not inevitable. In any case, brokers said traders were reluctant to commit themselves extensively either way in advance of Friday's report from the Commerce Department on the nation's trade balance for May. Millipore climbed 1| to 38~ and Worthington Industries, traded in the over-the-counter market, gained 1[ to 24]. The two stocks were added to Standard & Poor's 500-stock composite index, prompting buying by index funds set up to duplicate the performance of the 500. Motorola fell 1} to 50{. The company reported second-quarter earnings of 93 cents a share, up from 62 cents in the comparable period last year but below what some Wall Streeters had been looking for. The NYSE's composite index of all its listed common stocks rose .21 to 152.48. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index was up .19 at 307.85. Volume on the Big Board came to 147.41 million shares with an hour to go."	" Archaeologists say the tombs of a mysterious city have yielded the first example of the use on children of an ancient art: carving or engraving teeth as a sign of beauty. Evidence of the engraving was discovered on the teeth of a young boy's skeleton found in the ruins of Montezuma's Balcony, whose civilization was far more advanced than any previously thought to exist in the region. Montezuma's Balcony is 310 miles north of Mexico City outside Ciudad Victoria, capital of northeastern Tamaulipas state. Its name is derived from that of Moctezuma, the Aztec king. Tamaulipas, which spent more than $53,000 on the project, plans to open the site to the public this year. Two canyons and a mountain surround the remote, 12-acre city. It is reached by a steep, rocky road that veers two miles off the main highway to 86 huge slabs of stone named the ``grand stairway.'' Only from the top of the stairway can the remains of more than 100 circular structures be seen, each up to 50 feet in diameter, built from stacked and fitted rocks. More than 100 skeletons were found in basements, along with ceramic fragments, food-grinding utensils, pipes, necklaces, arrowheads, knives and small figurines. The remains of the boy, no older than 5, showed evidence of the carving, called dental mutilation, in his two upper incisors and one lower incisor. ``This is a very rare find,'' said Jesus Narez, director of the Montezuma's Balcony restoration project. ``Until now, we have never detected dental mutilations in a person this young.'' In primitive cultures, dental mutilation is believed to be practiced only on adults. It still is done by some Brazilian, Indonesian and African communities. ``We think it hurts a lot, but . . . peyote, which was commonly used in those times, was probably used to put the child to sleep or dull the pain,'' Narez said. Several other things make Montezuma's Balcony unique, said Narez, curator-investigator of the architectural and cultural collections of northern Mexico at the National Museum of Anthropology and History in Mexico City. He said two groups of people lived there: the Grassiles, thin and fine featured, and the Robustus, big-boned and heavy. Archaeologists chose the names. ``At least for now, we think they lived there together, but radiocarbon testing is being done to determine if they were there at the same time or if one group followed the other,'' Narez said. According to Narez, the city's 3,000 people probably lived between the years 600 and 1400. The elite occupied in the structures and were buried in their basements, and the others lived in wooden huts, he said. References to Montezuma's Balcony appeared in a researcher's report in the mid-1800s, and there was another report in the 1940s. Work on the site began in 1988 and was completed in August. Although their culture was higher than others in the area, the Montezuma's Balcony residents were not as advanced as the Teotihuacans, Zapotecs or Mayas of southern Mexico, who built pyramids and cities in the same period. Northern tribes like the Huastecas the warrior-like Chichimecas, led more primitive, simpler lives than the people of Montezuma's Balcony, Narez said. ``We never thought we'd find these types of buildings so far north,'' he said, adding that huge pieces of rock used to build the Montezuma's Balcony structures were moved with the aid of planks and rope. ``A tribal group with limited organization would not have had sufficient social structure to construct these buildings,'' he said. ``They must have had chiefs, priests, workers and so on.'' He said the site probably was chosen because only the side with the ``grand staircase'' would have to be guarded. Circular structures are typical of Huastecas. Dome-like huts of palm and wood built over basements were believed to lesson the impact of hurricanes and cyclones. Montezuma's Balcony may have been part of a commercial corridor, Narez said, because artifacts like pipes and necklaces show influences of tribes from farther north like the Kaddo, Adena, Apaches and Mississippians. He said how its people became extinct had not been determined. ``We can only guess at this point,'' he said. ``Climate changes may have made it hard to get enough to eat. There may have been frequent fighting with the Chichimecas. There may have been illness.''"	" Budget negotiators should limit next year's deficit cuts to $50 billion to $60 billion, far less than the law requires, say top fiscal experts for Congress and the Bush administration. The advice, if followed, would make it easier _ and less politically painful _ for participants in the budget summit to reach a deficit-reduction deal for 1991. White House officials and congressional leaders met in the Capitol Thursday for their second round of talks on the $1.2 trillion budget for fiscal 1991, which begins Oct. 1. That spending plan will have to contain an enormous amount of taxes or spending cuts to meet the $64 billion deficit ceiling mandated by the Gramm-Rudman balanced budget law. At Thursday's session, negotiators did not agree on what size of budget-cutting package they need. ``It's bouncing all over the ballpark, $60 billion, $45 billion, $50 billion,'' said Senate Budget Committee Chairman James Sasser, D-Tenn. Their own analysts gave them wildly differing figures about the size of the looming shortfall. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office said next year's budget gap looks like it will be $149 billion to $159 billion. That would mean savings _ either new taxes or spending slashes _ of $85 billion to $95 billion to shrink the shortfall to the Gramm-Rudman target of $64 billion. The White House's Office of Management and Budget projected a shortfall of $123 billion to $138 billion. That would necessitate $59 billion to $74 billion in cuts to hit the Gramm-Rudman ceiling. Neither set of figures includes the cost of rescuing the country's savings and loan institutions, a bailout that could cost the government tens of billions of dollars next year. Yet according to participants, CBO Director Robert Reischauer and OMB Director Richard Darman agreed that savings should be limited to $50 billion to $60 billion. The two budget experts said deficit cuts exceeding that amount could slow an already weak economy. Many economists worry that taking more than that amount away from consumers and government contractors _ in the form of higher taxes or spending cuts _ could prompt a recession. Some negotiators have said that loosening the deficit targets in the Gramm-Rudman law could be one way of keeping automatic cuts from taking effect. Darman also presented negotiators with examples of the spending cuts the Gramm-Rudman law would impose next year if Congress and President Bush fail to enact a deficit-reduction plan. The law would trigger enough cuts to reduce the deficit to $64 billion. According to the budget chief, $30 billion in Gramm-Rudman cuts would mean a 10.4 percent cut in domestic programs and a 7.6 percent reduction in defense spending. A $60 billion cutback would pare domestic programs by 22.2 percent and defense by 15.2 percent. In January, Bush released a proposed budget asserting that only $37 billion in savings would be needed to reach the Gramm-Rudman deficit target. The administration says that since that time, projected costs of aiding the savings and loan industry have grown, interest rates have jumped and tax collections have dropped. Democrats point out that CBO and many private economists have been expecting the higher deficit figures for months. The budget talks are expected to last weeks or months. Both sides are being cautious in suggesting how to cope with a problem that could mean unpopular tax increases or spending reductions in an election year."	" Budget negotiators should limit next year's deficit cuts to $50 billion to $60 billion, far less than the law requires, say top fiscal experts for Congress and the Bush administration. The advice, if followed, would make it easier _ and less politically painful _ for participants in the budget summit to reach a deficit-reduction deal for 1991. White House officials and congressional leaders met in the Capitol Thursday for their second round of talks on the $1.2 trillion budget for fiscal 1991, which begins Oct. 1. That spending plan will have to contain an enormous amount of taxes or spending cuts to meet the $64 billion deficit ceiling mandated by the Gramm-Rudman balanced budget law. At Thursday's session, negotiators did not agree on what size of budget-cutting package they need. ``It's bouncing all over the ballpark, $60 billion, $45 billion, $50 billion,'' said Senate Budget Committee Chairman James Sasser, D-Tenn. Their own analysts gave them wildly differing figures about the size of the looming shortfall. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office said next year's budget gap looks like it will be $149 billion to $159 billion. That would mean savings _ either new taxes or spending slashes _ of $85 billion to $95 billion to shrink the shortfall to the Gramm-Rudman target of $64 billion. The White House's Office of Management and Budget projected a shortfall of $123 billion to $138 billion. That would necessitate $59 billion to $74 billion in cuts to hit the Gramm-Rudman ceiling. Neither set of figures includes the cost of rescuing the country's savings and loan institutions, a bailout that could cost the government tens of billions of dollars next year. Yet according to participants, CBO Director Robert Reischauer and OMB Director Richard Darman agreed that savings should be limited to $50 billion to $60 billion. The two budget experts said deficit cuts exceeding that amount could slow an already weak economy. Many economists worry that taking more than that amount away from consumers and government contractors _ in the form of higher taxes or spending cuts _ could prompt a recession. Some negotiators have said that loosening the deficit targets in the Gramm-Rudman law could be one way of keeping automatic cuts from taking effect. Darman also presented negotiators with examples of the spending cuts the Gramm-Rudman law would impose next year if Congress and President Bush fail to enact a deficit-reduction plan. The law would trigger enough cuts to reduce the deficit to $64 billion. According to the budget chief, $30 billion in Gramm-Rudman cuts would mean a 10.4 percent cut in domestic programs and a 7.6 percent reduction in defense spending. A $60 billion cutback would pare domestic programs by 22.2 percent and defense by 15.2 percent. In January, Bush released a proposed budget asserting that only $37 billion in savings would be needed to reach the Gramm-Rudman deficit target. The administration says that since that time, projected costs of aiding the savings and loan industry have grown, interest rates have jumped and tax collections have dropped. Democrats point out that CBO and many private economists have been expecting the higher deficit figures for months. The budget talks are expected to last weeks or months. Both sides are being cautious in suggesting how to cope with a problem that could mean unpopular tax increases or spending reductions in an election year."	" Here is a text of President Bush's news conference Thursday: President Bush: Well I have a brief statement and then I'll be glad to take some questions. The United States is engaged in a collective effort involving the overwhelming majority of the member states of the United Nations to reverse the consequences of Iraqi aggression. And our goals, enshrined in five Security Council resolutions, are clear: the immediate and unconditional withdrawal of Iraqi forces from Kuwait, the restoration of Kuwait's legitimate government, the stability of Saudi Arabia and the Persian Gulf, and the protection of American citizens. What is at stake here is truly significant _ the dependability of America's commitments to its friends and allies, the shape of the post-postwar world, opposition to aggression, the potential domination of the energy resources that are crucial to the entire world. This effort has been truly international from the very outset. Many other countries are contributing. At last count, 22 countries have either responded to a request from Saudi Arabia to help deter further aggression, or are contributing maritime forces pursuant to United Nations Security Council Resolution 665. And still others are providing other forms of financial and material support to these defense efforts or to countries whose economies are affected adversely by sanctions or by higher oil prices. And still others are paying a heavy economic price at home for complying with the United Nations sanctions. It is important that the considerable burden of the effort be shared by those being defended and those who benefit from the free flow of oil. Indeed, anyone with a stake in international order has an interest in ensuring that all of us succeed. The United States has large interests in the balance and has undertaken commitments commensurate with them, and we're more than willing to bear our fair share of the burden. This includes above all the thousands of men and women in our armed forces who are now in the Gulf, but we also expect others to bear their fair share. A number of countries already have announced their willingness to help those adversely affected economically by this endeavor. And it's essential, though, that this be a concerted and coordinated one and that all affected countries participate. It is important to get the priorities right and make sure that those most deserving of assistance receive it and that those most able to contribute do so. And for that reason, I directed an interagency effort to develop a strategy to accomplish this objective. The group's report was presented at yesterday's National Security Council meeting here, and this morning I approved an action plan. And our approach calls for substantial economic assistance to those states _ in particular, I'd single out Turkey and Egypt, who are bearing a great part of the burden of sanctions and higher oil prices. The plan also targets additional countries, including Jordan, the countries of Eastern Europe and others for special assistance. The United States will also seek burdensharing for part of our own effort. At the same time, we will be asking other governments, including Japan, the Republic of Korea, Federal Republic of Germany, Saudi Arabia, the Emirates, free Kuwait, and others to join us in making available financial and, where appropriate, energy resources to countries that have been most affected by the current situation. To facilitate this undertaking, I've asked Secretary of State Jim Baker and the Secretary of the Treasury Nick Brady to lead high-level delegations to the Persian Gulf, Europe and Asia. And I'll be getting directly in touch with the leaders of these countries before Secretaries Baker and Brady arrive to set forth, spell out our general objectives. Let me close by repeating what I said the other day in meeting with the congressional leaders. The basic pieces of our policy are in place. The Iraqi regime stands in opposition to the entire world and to the interests of the Iraqi people. It is truly Iraq against the world. But I want to make this point clear, we have no argument with the people of Iraq. The sanctions are beginning to take hold. And in the meantime, we want to ensure that countries contributing to this unprecedented collective response do not suffer for doing so. And what I've announced today and what I expect will be implemented in the coming days should help create a context in which sanctions against Iraq can be sustained with the intended effect. Another area where there has been unprecedented international solidarity is OPEC's willingness to take up the slack in oil production created by the embargo on Iraqi and Kuwait's oil. In this connection, I met this morning with our energy advisers who are watching the oil production situation very, very closely. And we are pleased with OPEC's decision to help take up the slack in crude oil production. And although we are in what I would see as a transition period, the situation appears manageable. At the present time, we don't anticipate major imbalances in the oil market. But we do have the Strategic Petroleum Reserve tested and available if it is truly needed. And our energy policy is resulting in increased oil production and fuel switching to natural gas and to other fuels. I also repeat my previous request for Americans to conserve and for all parties to act responsibly. Right now, the situation, I would say, is relative stable, and I am very pleased by the coordination that has taken place with so many countries in maintaining adequate fuel levels. MORE"	" A witch doctor using a monkey as bait captured the companion of a notorious man-eating crocodile, but the 200-year-old killer croc remains at large, a newspaper said today. Bujang Sudin, a 16.4-foot long specimen weighing 397 pounds, was pulled from a river Saturday and sold to a nearby crocodile farm, the New Straits Times said. The newspaper said the witch doctor, Bakir Alias Yeop, lured the crocodile with the monkey and chanted, ``Bujang Sudin come.'' It said two other men then helped haul the crocodile from the river. The report quoted Abang Adris Abang Suhai, a police official in Sarawak state, 540 miles southeast of Kuala Lumpur. Police said the people of Sungai Sadong village in Sarawak had been complaining that a crocodile was troubling them and chasing them as they walked along the river bank. They wanted it caught. Police said they did not know if Bujang Sudin had eaten any humans. The crocodile's companion, however, has, and has been the subject of massive police hunts. He is Bujang Senang, which means ``easy-going bachelor'' in Malay, and he is believed to have been born about 200 years ago. Bujang Sudin means ``bachelor Sudin''. In 1984, Bujang Senang became famous in Malaysia when he killed a 51-year-old man who was in a boat near his home. On Aug. 2, 1982, the crocodile killed an 86-year-old man. Police sharpshooters scoured the rivers in an effort to track down the crocodile. Authorities called witch doctors from as far away as Indonesia to help. Police have stopped looking for Bujang Senang, although there have been occasional reports of him being sighted along various rivers."	" NASA opened Discovery's payload bay doors Saturday to remove the Hubble Space Telescope's batteries for recharging and to replace a faulty part in preparation for an April 25 launch. Technicians took out a faulty auxiliary power unit responsible for grounding the shuttle last week. A new unit was being installed to be tested Sunday and fired up briefly later this week. ``We haven't run into any problem,'' said Lisa Malone, a spokeswoman for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. ``We're looking good for the 25th.'' Hubble's six nickel-hydrogen batteries will be recharged for 5{ days in a laboratory at the Vehicle Assembly Building. NASA decided to take the batteries there because they can be recharged at a cooler temperature and thus retain more power. ``We will have a higher capacity in them than we would have had we been recharging at the pad,'' said Fred Wojtalik, a NASA project manager. ``This will make the opportunities for additional launch days a lot easier for us.'' The batteries will power Hubble from the time it is disconnected from the shuttle's power system during deployment until its energy-collecting solar panels are unfurled. Discovery was poised for launch Tuesday, but the mission was scrubbed four minutes before liftoff when the auxiliary power unit failed. NASA was not sure how long it would take to replace the 88-pound unit because the procedure had never been performed before at the launch pad. The work went smoothly, Malone said. The defective power unit was returned to the manufacturer, Sunstrand Corp. of Rockford, Ill., for testing. The shuttle's three auxiliary power units pressurize the hydraulic system, which is used to move wing and rudder surfaces and in the ship's braking and steering systems. NASA planned to close Discovery's payload bay doors Sunday as soon as the lengthy process of removing the batteries was completed. The chamber will remain sealed to reduce the risk of getting too much dust on the telescope's 94-inch mirror, the finest ever made, until the batteries are returned next weekend. The $1.5 billion telescope is NASA's most expensive and complex payload. Once it is in orbit above Earth's distorting atmosphere, it will be able to detect objects 50 times fainter and with 10 times greater clarity than the best observatory on the ground. Astronomers expect to study stars and galaxies so distant that their light has been traveling toward Earth for 14 billion years, close to the beginning of the universe."	" Five young adults exploring a storm drain were found alive after being washed away by runoff from a thunderstorm Thursday night, authorities said. The five, who were among eight people 18 to 25 years old who were exploring the drain, were located about 350 yards inside the drain about 11:30 p.m., said Fire Department spokesman Brad Stewart. ``They're all alive,'' Stewart said. One of the eight, John Shaffer of Charleston, said he and two friends were able to escape the drain. ``We got washed down the tube,'' said Shaffer, 21. ``We got a quarter of the way down and the water got so high. We tried to get out and we got washed out. ``We were just exploring there,'' he said. ``It wasn't raining when we went in, but then the water came in.'' The storm dumped up to 1{ inches of rain in a two-hour period in the area, the National Weather Service said."	" African guerrilla leader Sam Nujoma is asking presidential hopefuls Michael Dukakis and Jesse Jackson to pressure South Africa into relinquishing control over South-West Africa, the territory known as Namibia. Nujoma, who heads the South-West Africa People's Organization, said he had met with campaign managers who promised him a meeting with the two Democratic candidates within the coming week. GOP contender George Bush has not responded to a similar request for a meeting, Nujoma said in an interview Tuesday. Nujoma, 58, said that despite claims to the contrary, South Africa is trying to strengthen its hold over the mineral-rich territory which it rules in defiance of a 1978 U.N. resolution calling for Namibian independence. Nujoma, who lives in exile in Angola, accused South African troops of arson and bombing attacks against Namibia's 1.5 million residents, including the burning of 14 church-run schools last month. South Africa has denied the charges, accusing SWAPO of the attacks. South African President P.W. Botha paid a rare visit to the territory on April 8, and proposed increased powers for his chief representative there. The proposal would weaken the ``transitional'' government established by South Africa in 1985 with a view to eventual independence for Namibia. ``South Africa has no intention whatsoever to leave Namibia,'' said Nujoma. The South Africans will have to be ``forced out by the combined resistance of the Namibian people and international pressure.'' He called on the next U.S. administration to pursue steps similar to the trade sanctions legislated by Congress in 1986 against South Africa. Nujoma said he had requested a meeting with Secretary of State George P. Shultz but had not received any response. A State Department official confirmed Nujoma had asked for a meeting, and said Shultz had yet to reply. Shultz has been criticized by conservative members of Congress, such as Rep. Patrick Swindall, R-Ga., for allowing Nujoma into the country in view of his organization's guerrilla activities and support from the Soviet Union. In a letter to Shultz, Swindall called Nujoma a ``terrorist and Soviet puppet.'' The United States supports a South African pullout and an independent Namibia, but its contacts with SWAPO have been limited. U.S. representatives are taking part in two days of talks in London with representatives from Angola, Cuba and South Africa on a plan for the pullout of South African forces from Namibia and Cuban troops from Angola. Cuba has an estimated 37,000 soldiers in Angola. Estimates for the South African military presence in Namibia range from 40,000 to 100,000. Nujoma said he was sure Angola would protect his group's interests at the talks and press its demands for Namibian independence. ``It will be a package, I am assured of this by the Angolan government,'' he said. If an agreement is worked out, SWAPO will stop its attacks against South African troops, he said. SWAPO says it killed more than 90 South Africans this year, but its claims cannot be verified. Nujoma conceded that SWAPO gets most of its arms and training from the Soviet Union, Cuba, Yugoslavia, Angola and several other members of the Organization of African Unity. But he added that if the United States wants to supply SWAPO with weapons, ``we will certainly accept it with great pleasure.'' Nujoma is on a three-week visit to the United States to attend several U.N.-sponsored seminars on Namibia and to highlight his organization's demands."
